# 20260413

Oh wow, I think I might be both Charles Wallace _and_ Meg Murry. Maybe by turns? That would explain both the sāyujya and the staying-here of it (pun initially not intended, and then, upon reflection, still not intended). 🧠 🐉

Two kinds of kings: Arthur and IT, Camelot and Camazotz?

... wait no, two kinds of _projections_ of kings? a king is a king is a king, but - for the observer, depending on that observer's alignment with locality - the king and their kingdom could be _anywhere_ on that Arthur-IT spectrum?

dang

my fears about leadership have gotten subtler :) but leadership is still a thing that happens, and I keep ... noticing it. I suppose I need to say that I have no idea what the scope of my kingdom is. I think .. that's the nature of how I do _king_.

I wonder if I'm on my way back to being villager? or ... maybe now I _can_ be a villager without being in pain, and I had to figure out how leadership actually worked before I could stop resisting it

hummmmm

okay: if you're totally incompatible with Arthur, might Camelot instantiate itself as Camazotz in your experience? maybe a sufficiently alien timezone shows up for you _crystalized_? would it feel like liquid from the inside, when you share the same clock? was Charles Wallace changing phase? changing worlds like Diana Wynne Jones writes about changing worlds? asking because .. I think I am dual-phase, now?

or maybe I always was, and I didn't know how that _worked_ because I had no examples around me?
