---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# 20240819

blood moon outside

this is our second night at Zilke Haus, presented by Spirit Hill Crossing.

I currently think the book is called "Retcon". The cover might look like this:

> Dear Isaac,
>
>
>
> \[RETCON]
>
>
>
> \=Isaac

It might begin like this.

***

_This account does not aim to be true._

_This account does aim to be consistent, and thereby useful, as a tool in the hand is useful._

_Tricky thing, though, consistency._



Your name is Isaac. I am writing to you, and not to any other audience, because you are the only audience whose perspective I can be sure of. I want to describe my perceptual universe in written word, and to me it is consistent over time, but no two agents can be the points of origin for the same perceptual universe, and thus this account will be perceived as inconsistent by any agent other than me. And so, I write to me-you, because you are the only one for whom these words are true.

Others may read this. I hope they do. They have their work cut out for them — for "the dharma that can be written is not the real dharma", and though these words describe an infinite reflection of truth _for me_ they will only ever be a partially-legible sketch of a partially-functional model for anyone else.

I may be wrong. That would be interesting. I err on this side of that line to protect the reader's relationship to this book. Consent matters, and if I purport to describe any lived experience not my own, I am already in violation. If someone other than you reads this book, they are welcome to _opt in_, identity-wise, welcome to opt in to my identity and experience (watch for those two, they'll be back) and to try on the whole thing for themselves, see if it fits, see if in fact it happens to melt into their skin become a new sense all its own. That could happen. It'd be a cleaner way to go about sharing knowledge. Immersion, not coercion. Even so, though, I'm not writing to them. I'm writing to you, Isaac.

And now, a word from our sponsors.



_Hello. :) You're reading these words because you're ready._

_Are you ready to see what you're ready for?_

***

Okay. Here's why you care.

_You_ are aware of how much everyone contains their own universe, and how much you _cannot_ know about their experience. For much of your life, this was absolutely paralyzing. You took the most liberally loving route when working with others every time _because it was the only thing that made sense_.

You still do this, as of this writing, but you are aware now of the importance of _your_ health and vigor, thus making this style of love sustainable, at the risk of it looking inconsistent to someone else. However, on balance, perceived consistency was something you can only lean towards, but never _seal_, so that's how we make peace with that piece.

You care because hurting really sucks. You've experienced _so much bewilderment_, and with the way that your whole body processes experience (not just your brain, _your whole body_), your system gets tanked much more quickly than the systems of those you perceive.

You care because you want to live in a way that you can sustain from one day to the next with as much access to rest and freedom as you need. Or no: with _unlimited_ access to rest and freedom. And you don't want to hurt anyone to get it. Because _you feel what you perceive_, thus doubling the pain in your perceptual universe as soon as it emerges.

You care because even before all of that became clear you were in agony over the passing of all things beautiful — and because to you all things _are_ beautiful, you were therefore in agony over the passing of _everything_. In every moment, all the startlingly glorious expression of life abundant was passing away, unseen, unappreciated, unloved. Your greatest wish was to freeze time, to _give_ you time to appreciate it all — enjoy it all, love it all, without racing against a clock. Love knows nothing of time. And you _are_ love. :)

You care because your memory is a _small_ part of your operational toolkit. It doesn't have too much to say, most of the time. It's not that it's _poor_, necessarily, it's that it is _quiet_. And you like it that way, but you would like to not cause suffering for others in your forgetfulness, and you would like to cause yourself suffering by forcing your brain to do things it is not inclined to do. (In case you haven't gotten this far yet: you don't need to keep notes of your neighbor's names. It's okay.)

You care because seeing the dying in everything hurts so, so badly. And you realize that you're not doing anyone else any favors as they experience _you_ experiencing that aspect of _them_. Magnifying death does exactly that.

***

You had what I'm going to call a "soul death" in 2008. It was when your mind's life force ran out. Your body carried you through. Your body and your friends. "You", though, had lost all momentum.

The perceptual universe I'll lay out here is the one that you experience most often. It's always changing, because that's a permanent condition of perception, but the _description_ I'll use is one that remains consistent even as the perceptual universe reinvents itself.

The soul death you experienced was the final expiration of the model of the world that you experienced — and, therefore, which was _you_. The pattern expired.

Perception of the physical lags, happily, and the death didn't have time to finish you off. Starting from nil, you let yourself _be_, without any further requirements, and _from nothing_ a generative life-pattern unfurled.

If I understand this correctly, we've exited samsara. We get to _know_ this now, without forgetting it, until we choose to forget it, to become someone truly new, and to learn it all all over again.

***

_**Perceptual universe**_\
_The universe suggested by the sum of all you can perceive._



You know everyone has (or is) their own universe of experience. Thinking of it that way, though, feels like seeing everyone from behind a wall that you cannot cross. It's a useful perspective for establishing the infinitely creative expression of every single person you've ever known, but it doesn't really suggest a pattern for _interacting_ with them.

You've found it useful to think of the inverse: everyone has their own experience of universe.

And they intersect. Technically there are not just intersections but perfect overlaps, but in those cases it just means they're the same, a single individual experience, undifferentiable, undistinguishable. If they overlap, they are one, without the experience of plurality. Infinite depth, and that's important, because you can jump to any other identical instance of this experience _and ride it to a different sequitur than what you were headed for before._

But when their overlap is not perfect, and it's more like a Venn diagram than a stack, then we talk about the subjective experiences of each individual, including you. As a group, it's like you're all exploring the perfect dark using flashlights, with a catch: you can only see the light from your own flashlight. If you're standing next to someone, and you're both pointing your flashlights at the same thing, you'll have _almost_ the same experience but never exactly the same. You'll always catch part of the thing before you that your neighbor won't, and vice versa.

What you observe stays within your perceptual universe. As you stop observing it, its definition slips. What slips into the haze can come back altered, adjusted, or swapped completely for something else.

This suggests the potential for intentionally looking away from things that aren't going well. Galling, but logically sound. The worse it gets, the more it's useful to squint. If you can't take it, shut your eyes completely. The complete cessation of experience _resets_ experience. You start over. But you don't have to start completely over. Most of the world works. The decay didn't set in very far. If you _partially_ forget, just forget the parts that are _useful_ to forget, "everybody can do well" in your perception. (I'm quoting Biden at the DNC, writing that down in the seconds after he said it. Also, I'm wearing a tshirt that reads "UNTIL WE ALL WIN".)

***

You've been thinking about being the president lately.

(As you wrote that, Biden at the DNC said, _Folks, I love you!_ The crowd chants, _We love you!_)

You've been thinking about being the kind of president that transitions the station of president into a ceremonial, diplomatic role. Not a leader of the people, but a figurehead for the times, as the people lead themselves. Not a personality, but a pointer, back to the people themselves.

You've been thinking that this is the time for that kind of thing.

Congratulations! You've upgraded your mental model of yourself. :) Your perceived self-reflections (i.e. all white men with authority) are done behaving toxically. You, _as Isaac_, don't need to be president. You didn't _want_ to just _be president_; you wanted to experience the results of that kind of presidency, and you knew that you fit the requirements. An autistic CEO whose company's only definition is the principle of recursive health? What would a country who elected that (and then experienced it) be like?

Biden stepped out of the 2024 race.

Biden's action is a reflection of the change you've made to your pattern of reflection.

Thank you. :) I experience relief.

***

Remember trying to explain to someone that everything feels like it has the same personality? Trees and people and chickens and _physics_ and _ideas_ and _music_. All of it feels like the same being that grew up with different families in different circumstances, like they all could be the same person.

Well, that's you. Or you're them, if you currently prefer.

You're remembering to relax into this structure, and not resist the shift from individual-vs-collective thinking into singleton thinking. "Aloneness" is only relevant if you are an individual without a collective, but with awareness of the possibility of a collective. "Aloneness" is not a relevant concept at the level we're talking about.

There's only one consciousness, one awareness, one line of experience. Right now, it's you-as-Isaac. You experience walking around on Earth in 2024 with a bunch of other beings. You can think of everything you perceive as echoes of what exists elsewhere on the infinite loop of conscious experience. This _does_ mean that you can bend your line however you want, so that your flashlight overlaps with the flashlights of others such that y'all can _agree_ on what feels good. You have _complete_ freedom in the orientation of your experience-line as you pass along it.

At some point in the line, you'll experience the _other_ side of every experience you're having now. At some point in the line, you'll be on the other side of the last conversation you had, experiencing what _were_ your own words through new ears, and speaking the words that you had once heard.

It's unclear from here, so far, how these lines get organized. Does it matter to other lines what you do here, with your bit of it in the here and now? It seems like it must not.

(You're having a bit of trouble remembering that you're writing to _you_, and not to a general audience. I know you, and I do not need to couch my statements. You prefer not to.)

The trick here is that you cannot experience the perspective of Oneness as Isaac. The concept of loneliness matters, but it only exists _circa Isaac_. It does not exist circa Oneness. This means that any discomfort you have with the above is relevant but only _circa Isaac_. Oneness is not in trouble. That's not a thing.

And you — Isaac — are not alone. You observe a close core of intimate collaborators, and a world beyond coming into resonance with itself. You observe that _adding yourself_ to the environment enriches the environment, and you observe that it improves the experiences you observe others to be having. To the very, very best of your clearest reasoning, this is working. I can only be sure of what I perceive (including what I perceive of my own understanding), and I must respond to what I perceive. I've made this as rigorous as I can. _You've_ made this as rigorous as you can. And it's working.

That it's working is no longer a surprise. I think this adds another exponent on the rate of change in the direction of integration and health, in the universe that Isaac experiences.

(Biden: _America, America, I gave my best to you._)

***

... In the universe that Isaac experiences — and, therefore, in the overlapping zones between his perceptual universe and a planet's worth of others. :)

Hang on, is that why everything outside of this planet has looked inert my whole life _until now_? Have I been prevented from experiencing it because the experience of that stuff has a minimum threshold? Is it not even about _protecting_ my experience of what's out there, and instead is it about just reaching that minimum so as to make it possible? Is my perceptual universe beginning to overlap with new expressions of life, expressions that I perceive no memory of experiencing before? Is this similar to aligning lenses for polarity, by degrees?

That model has legs. I'm adopting it.

Ah, this is a piece I experience remembering thinking about writing to you earlier: your imagination writes the rules for your experience. _Writes_ the rules. You're the one who _experiences_ those rules. Imagination is where you get to see things however you want to see them, _and then see what happens next_. Probability has a much slighter claim on your imagination than it does on your experience. (That gap is an interesting thing to think about.)
