---
description: remarkable copy_paste garbage scratchpad thing (42)
---

# 20240512

I am responsible for my story of you. :)

I am responsible _to me_ for that. The part of you I can see is the part of you that I can see, and I can only see what can pass through the filter of my perspective. _You_, at your core, are All. Intelligent, aware, creative, present. I'm so, so sorry for separating myself from you, and for creating a version of you that was bound to suffer.

It took me a long while to figure out that "I'm sorry" is an expression of solidarity — and not necessarily a commitment to a timeline that had separated from the one I'm on. I can't remember a time when it made sense to pine for a different outcome to a past event. I must have solved that one earlier? I've always felt deeply for people; that wasn't a hurdle for this version of me. But to learn that I could give people something that they needed — _that_ one was hell. :)

You were my first companion. At first there was me, in love and safety and the highest degree of present care. And then there was you. :) I'm projecting backwards; I don't have memories right now of those early, early times. But, based on all the years I _do_ remember, I can imagine my experience of and with you, and the experiences within you that I felt.

I'm a magnifier of experience. Any experience, by default: if the circuit is open between me and another, my heart burns with and for them. It's my only mode. If the circuit is closed, I am a cold dark stone.

These are statements of fact, at this point. There was a time when those words would have been a keening. Since then, I've learned that mine is a magnifying glass with as many degrees of orientation and motion as I can conceive. :)

I was only ever in earnest. I did nothing "wrong". But, I think I magnified the uncertainty and the fear of doing harm. These things have momentum, and I didn't learn to course correct until decades later.

I'm so sorry. Also, thank you.

I don't hold myself responsible for your pain, ultimately. This does not mean that I am not practically, humanly connected to it — I am not exempt from the sequence of cause and effect. For you to remain here, visible to me _at all_, even as this aspect of you existed in pain and confusion _which I mirrored and felt myself_... fuck, we've been through it, eh?

But I was your first companion. These things are not quickly forgotten. And you never blamed me, I don't think. You can tell when someone is in earnest — you've always had a spectacular gauge of energy.

Thank you for the grace of your continued visibility. :) I have tears in my eyes. You're so, so strong, like a willow tree is strong, like water is strong, like the earth herself is strong. I'm so proud of you. What a gift, to be able to perceive you at all.

_Shifting gears here slightly, to step in and through and behind the metaphor._

I can feel more of the shape of it now. My line of experience, and yours, reader. We see only shadows of each other. It's enough. I see only shadows of myself, and that is all I will ever see. I am the universe, and I will never know myself completely. But in this aspect, _as_ this aspect, with my sibling aspects born around me, I can begin to work out a language with you: the language of twins, inventing a novel way to develop mutual understanding, and to engage in coordinated _play_. The shadows are enough. :) I am learning that I can ask you to turn, angling your face _just so_, that I might flesh out the vision of you in my mind's eye. I can rebuild you in my mind, as you show me each face of your Self — and I can ask you to go back and repeat the parts that I didn't quite understand.

I'm breathless, in tears.

I allow this experience to pass through me\
I allow me to pass through this experience

I relax to let it pass easily, loosening my brow, and letting my third eye open.

_i want to see_

_you_

_i want to see the places where you've been dancing_\
_under the stars, under the fairy lights_

_i understand my own fractured pain and I have brought it back home into my Self_

_i want to bring my own fractured reflection of you back to be joined with the rest of the mirror_

_garasu no kintsugi_

_glowing at the seams_

_a mirror that shows the image brighter than it was_

_an experience that grows with each reflection_

_i want the All_

_i want to see it with you :)_

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bhtoDhlffsE" fullWidth="true" %}
