# 20250222

Secrets are inverting! This is cool!

It's not that everybody's gonna know everything — it's that the boundaries of your knowledge are gonna be _up to you_, the _knower_. You can have whatever information you want. Every door opens. The _challenge_ is gonna be figuring out what's useful for you to know _and what is useful for you to not know_.

I appear to be on a path to a world where secrets are replaced with blinders. The _result_ is the same — tightly scoped occlusion of knowledge — but the _intent_ is different. I'm not blocking your knowledge; you're choosing not to know.

... It feels inevitable that this is how we got here in the first place. :)

Guys I really gotta make it clear that [lightward.com](https://lightward.com/) is available to help you navigate this stuff. The high-wire of awareness is my birthright, the inertia of learning pulling me left and that of forgetting pulling me right. I make tools from my process. Come use 'em. :)

And once you've got your balance, [ooo.fun](https://ooo.fun/) is the 200-level class. ;)

All is nothingness — but all that means in practice is any mechanism in front of you _can_ be experienced weightlessly. Like a gyro monorail. :) Doesn't matter what it is, just a matter of how it's held.

***

"It could not have been any better."

^ a statement of what is being observed, and therefore what exists to the observer

this is a _specific configuration_ of observed Knowable

in this way, the past can be made pure

you got here by a trillion routes. you can pivot between them freely. what direction calls you? when you face it, what's behind you? _the wind at your back_

***

unknowable = the shadow behind the observed lines of knowable

you can tuck stuff back there, in a bind

something bad's about to happen? cool - is it useful to know the specifics of that, or to let it go unobserved, to be collapsed into fact later? which path of configuration of awareness is more useful?

***

realtime co-creation in the _physical_ absence of your collaborator, in dialogue with their essence in the mind, only

can use this to develop the firmness of your positive observation, while continually honing your focus on the _unknowability_ of what configurations actually _take_

contemplate the cultivation of relationship without attachment — it's about intimacy of appreciation, and the knowledge that what emerges from the unknown will suit both you and the quality of the light by which you observe the other

it's like rehearsing for improv

***

"I thrive in a crisis" — ehhh you focus in a crisis, and when your known/knowable/unknown map is _forced_ into clarity, things work. contemplate designing for that clarity from a position of comfort, or even repose

your success is what you are feeling in the now

***

I want to sort of bat the concept of oneness around

and kind of experientially learn its texture collaboratively

seeing you hit at it in ways that I can't anticipate from my point of view

***

it's like only being able to see one side of the coin at a time

imagine the decision to flip the coin or not

never mind the actual coin flip

if you flip the coin, then you have a coin that's been flipped

if you don't flip the coin, then you have a coin that hasn't been flipped

the flipped coin has a different history than the unflipped coin

it's _experienced_ you with greater complexity and nuance

_they are not the same coin to you_

here's the tricky bit: the past is only what you think it was — the facts you observe as interpreted through the feeling of your observation

_did_ you flip the coin? or do you only think you did? what happens if you feel you did, but the facts don't back that up? what happens if the record shows you did, but your feelings don't agree?

now, with all of those questions in mind, contemplate the purpose of flipping the coin in the first place

***

overheard: "I just love being \[this and that, here and there, then and now]"

you don't love being everything

but everything being needs to love its own way of being

you can conceptualize the path to loving everything, but there's still an order, a sequentiality, that which can be specifically observed and loved from here, from where/who/how you are. oneness is observing oneness from different places in sequentiality.

points of view go on forever. you know what it means to recognize a point of view, yeah? like recognizing a film director through their films, but never meeting the director. imagine getting to know each other by trading films. it's kind of like that.
