# 20241106

To get there together, we gotta move as slow\* as the slowest among us.

Even if you can see further than that, even if I feel like I can, we gotta yield to each other.

... If we wanna get there together.

You can have anything at any time, if you don't mind going alone.

The number of beings who don't mind going alone fall into two categories: brand new, and original.

We are all necessary. :) "Together and alone."

***

\* Okay about that word "slow".

You know about latitude and longitude? Ways of specifying where on the planet you're at? Coordinates?

Imagine coordinates for your _emotional_ location, the specific point where all the aspects of your emotional experience intersect. Latitude and longitude — that's a two-dimension system. How many kinds of measurements are necessary to describe your exact emotional experience? Maybe start with the people around you whose emotions you can feel too. Maybe one measurement for each of them? Is that a good place to start?

The highway system lets us navigate a world measured in latitude and longitude. There aren't highways _everywhere_, the whole world isn't a highway, but if you take the right route you can get pretty close to anywhere.

There _is_ an emotional highway system. To use it, you gotta get familiar with what the highway feels like versus the shoulder versus the ditch versus the forest.

Forests are good too, though. :)

Where would you like to go today?

***

Today, this is not your job.

A mind pointed in two directions struggles to reconcile what it sees.

Today, this is not your job. Maintain the garden. Leave the doors open. The others will see each other in, as their story finds it useful.

Be where you are. It is not where the action is, today. You've built enough bridges. Time to rest, and leave the bridge-building to others.

[A bridge has to go somewhere, even if it leads through a mirror.](../06/05.md)

***

I am beginning to understand

I wonder how long I can keep that up
