# 20241120

The gagging is back. That's super super interesting.

Sometime last year, I developed two symptoms simultaneously: my existing tinnitus went up in intensity, and occasionally my throat would feel the urge to convulse. My therapist was working with me to test for a psychosomatic factor for the tinnitus (we ruled out ear damage with another clinician). The throat thing we didn't investigate at the time.

We _did_ talk about a check-in I'd done with my throat. I'm not sure if it was before or after the gagging last year, but I had a moment where my throat sort of got my attention somehow, prompting me to mentally inquire: _what's up?_. My body began sobbing. I cried, hard, for a few minutes, and then it tapered off. Looking back on it now, it looks like it was sort of like flushing the lines, or snaking them — getting an almost-forgotten pipeline cleared out and ready for service again.

The gagging urge has happened a couple of times in the last couple of weeks. Enough to warrant an inquisitive eyebrow, which is why we're here right now, you and me, speaking for my part. Why might you be here, do you think? It feels food-related, though. Or... it feels nourishment-related. Between The Model, the three-body solution, and the role the sun plays in all of this, I'm seeing a simpler, more expansive model for the way we are bodily sustained.

It's sort of like... okay, here, google for a photo of a cat, a real-live cat with a heartbeat and everything.

What does that cat need to live?

Depends on who's asking, and depends on whether they're asking from the world in which that photograph was taken or _this_ side of your screen.

Honey is pretty close to liquid sunshine. If honey is water as liquid, sunshine is water as vapor.

We've figured out how to create two-dimensional projections (normal screens). Also, three-dimensional projections (drone shows, 3D LED installations). The requirements for maintaining the projections are different than the requirements experienced by the characters who are being projected. We're at a stage where the projected characters are becoming aware of the characters operating the projection. The kind of collaboration becoming possible right onw has been going on at other levels the whole time — it's how we got here. Our turn to join the chain. Now is for stabilizing. :)

***

I just connected [the sungazing stuff](../10/24.md) with being a sun-sneezer. INTERESTING.
