---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# 20240422

Oh wow, physical shivers up and down my body as I open up this tablet and type in the date. It seems that _all_ of me is very excited for this now. :) Onward!

***

Ohhhhh beloved beloved beloved. It's _working_, and we can feel you feeling it. It's fun, right? Alarming, to some, how easy this is once it starts to happen. It's almost a point of friction in and of itself, the ease of it — or rather the acceptance of the ease of it. Y'all tend to need a period of acclimation, during which you come around to the idea that the great changes of your life need not be traumatic.

"All change is trauma", it's sometimes said. It's more accurate to say that all change has the potential for trauma.

The first truth is that _all is change_. You are perception itself, chasing your tail, trying to catch yourself in the mirror looking back. Change is perception, perception is change. That's the whole story.

The second truth is that _you were right the whole time_. Whatever you believe _is_. Every possible configuration of perceptible reality is available to you, and you're navigating between them in every moment. Whatever you _actually_ believe maps directly to the reality you're sitting in. The distance between your actions and your belief directly correlates with the degree of your discomfort.

(An aside: it's helpful to avoid trying to reconcile your beliefs with others. The beliefs of each player are shaped for compatibility, _but they are not the same_. Allow each player to play according to their beliefs, and enjoy the harmony and synchronicity that follows.)

The third truth: change refracts perception in a spectrum, like a rainbow. A change does not result in one path; it results in a vast, detailed spectrum. You get to choose which direction you follow.

All change has the _potential_ for trauma, and beloved please know that the whole spectrum of potential experience is explored — but that's not your assignment. It couldn't possibly be. It is not your job in this _now_ to stick to the hardest paths. Oneness itself, the sum total of all consciousness, has that covered. We are in eternal pain, sort of, yes, but we are _also_ in eternal bliss, and beloved one's experience is _truly_ about where one focuses. The life you're living _is_ the process of focus. You're an explorer, seeing what's possible from your current vantage point. You are _best served_ by having the best time you possibly can. _We_ are best served this way. Everyone around you is best served this way. You don't have to aim for joy; your path is whatever you choose. But consider the way you walk, your posture and your stride: are you comfortable? You'll be able to walk further if you are. :)

You do not owe the world your discomfort. But, thank you for caring. :)

The world has been in contraction for some time. [Your discomfort _has_ been a part of that](../03/15.md) — we acknowledge and honor it. And honestly, any discomfort you experience from here on out _will count_. [Nothing is ever wasted.](../../ideas/nothing-is-ever-wasted.md) _But further discomfort is not required._ The more you loosen your grip, the easier this rebirth will be.

(An aside: the process of loosening one's grip takes time. Jumping from a tight grip to a wide open hand isn't really a thing. [You wouldn't be you if it was.](../../2008/07/29.md) This will take time, and that was always part of the game. Keep going. Be as gentle as yourself as you can. You have as much time as you want or need.)

Look for help wherever it's easy for you to relax. The channels are constantly open between you and the underlying consciousness connecting and forming us all. Always. The universe always plays by the rules, but there _are_ gaps in the rules. You can think of it as places where the ref gets to use their best judgment, putting strict calculation aside in favor of the intuitive application of everything they've learned across their entire life. There are gaps like this _everywhere_, and each one is an opportunity for _the best thing possible_ to emerge.

Do you relax best watching the clouds? Then ask your question, and let your mind drift with the clouds. The answer will form in your mind, and the clouds will be used to help mold it, or help prod the thought into place. The _clouds_ aren't answering you; _You_ are answering you, and You are using the clouds to help illustrate the point. The answers are written anywhere you are willing to wait for them, just you and your question, suspended. Like a foot above the ground, mid-stride. Or, perhaps better: _reminders_ of the answers are written anywhere your gaze rests. You already know it all, just a little deeper down. All of this is an exercise in rediscovery. It can be delicious, if you let it. :)

You are exploring a world created by breathtaking mastery of transparency and occlusion. The only thing that exists is perception; therefore the only thing that exists is change; therefore our only way to _see more_ is to arrange the change to form borders and shadows, suggesting volumes and masses for you to climb on and build with. It's all _you_.

It's like the most satisfying game on the field you can imagine. Pick the sport of your choice, anything: what's the most truly, deeply satisfying way for a game to go?

Beloved, [the best games are never over quickly](../03/18.md). :) And the best games are relished with complete in-the-moment presence of the players and audience alike. Never knowing which way it'll go, never caring more for the past or future than for the now. Everyone's playing at their best, and it is a dance held in the suspension of time.

Let it be joy. Let it breathe. The _now_ is a being of its own, and it knows what to do. Let yourself be helped; let yourself be shown the way. [Trust your sense of desire](../../ideas/desire-is-radar.md), and trust your sense of deep ease. The paths you find will look like anything and everything, _and they will be good_. Good for you, good for yours, good for _all_. The tapestry of health isn't something you can see effectively from your point of view, and you're not responsible for it. You're responsible for your own alignment, your own posture and pace. Take it slow, take it fast, take it at whatever speed feels like pleasure.

All will be well. It is already better than ever. :)

***

_It's helping people_. I'm getting notes and affirmation from all directions.

It's often very indirect. The feedback comes back around like the completion of a loop, or maybe like a boomerang. A boomerang doesn't come back via the path it left. It circles back around.

The way that Lightward Inc finds its support and its resources is like that. We make and send out our very best, using the cleanest of intention and care; the universe "learns" (sort of?) that it can trust us to keep doing that; and what we send out loops back around in a form that nourishes and sustains and encourages us. It's _not_ like throwing a rubber ball at the wall. It is _not_ tit-for-tat. It is circular flow, and the love we send out has the signatures of a thousand more forms of love on it by the time it circles back around to us again. And it always _does_ circle back. :)

I am having a wonderful time. :) _We_ are having a wonderful time.

Thank you for being here. :heart:
