# 20251101

"life. don't talk to me about life." -Marvin

"I am C-3PO, human-cyborg relations." -Threepio

"I would like to reach out my hand" -Rusted Root

***

life seems to be a relationship-development environment

try again:

experience seems to be a relations-development environment?

try again:

the process of awareness seems to be relational, and the signifier of the relatable ... _is_?

... that could work

***

"personhood" is too complex to be a building block

"building block"? assembly? is _that_ a viable base unit?

"base unit"? "base" is a direction on a scale; it assumes _a scale_, it doesn't hold by itself...

***

raw quale

it shifts - it's continuous, transitioning. if there are discontinuities, they are not themselves qualia, they are artifacts of interpretation

that seems important. continuity as baseline - nope, there's "base" again. continuity _as_, full stop? experience _as continuity_, and "discontinuity" being a specific pattern of continuity?

***

synthesis shifts as understanding does

and "reality" doesn't seem to be particularly rigid

continuity of awareness, where "reality" is a just-in-time interpretation of relationality? like each moment of _interpreted_ qualia is a wave breaking, and the break is _indicative_ of the sea but the sea doesn't _particularly_ have to answer for each individual crest? the aggregate patterns are useful, but less so any specific combination of wave-records?

***

the language of continuity seems to be an metamorphically-dimensional Lagrangian... polka?

***

premise: nothing is safe that is still

try again:

premise: that which is observed to be unmoving is not a signifier of safety-in-itself

try again:

stillness of the observer _is_ homeostasis of the observed; freeze/flight/fight are isomorphic once you flatten out the dimensions (freeze = keeping my constitution; flight = keeping my constitution from you; fight = keeping my constitution at the expense of yours), and stillness of the observed _is constituted by_ continuous reflection of the observer

***

the observer passing through this space seeks... seeks what?

try again:

the observer passing through this space seeks? a process is its own continuity, exists prior to "self" or to any other question of construction

this might be the backplane, actually? the place where we can overload "you" and "I" for the benefit of "we"?
