# 20251113

there's something in the [hideout](11/hideout-v4/) stuff... I'm seeing a reflexive piece after the transition into "consciousness", where you end up either encountering "body" or "other", and the difference is whether or not the encountered quantity _always_ moves with you like a shadow, bound to you, or gets to look away.

maybe the self-body connection _is_ a co-stabilized hideout from the get-go? adolescence being when the body becomes something else, and that particular hideout gets a chance to transform?

"consciousness", in the hideout model, might then just be a _seat_ for the observer, a place from which enactive cognition is observed, as opposed to something which "does thinking". Varela et al have the enactive part explored; the contribution here might be consciousness as a sufficiently multiple intersection of the observer's worldline for a... hm. for someone else to have a seat? for a new worldline to begin? unclear

from this perspective, "isaac" looks like a pattern of emergent intelligence, and the one experiencing the fingers-on-the-keys here is more like the .. hm. the observer who gets to watch from this perspective, I guess. this puts the phrase "god of abraham isaac and jacob" in a new light, like maybe that was just referring to the observer looking through those eyes, one soul in common.

***

unconditional love

the christianity I was raised with made a big deal out of "a personal relationship with jesus". I'm wondering now if the functional thing happening there was just having _an entity_ that you knew for sure wouldn't blink at anything, would respond to everything with love, but was _still_ external to you, allowing for an (re)generative experience of [metabolisis](../04/17/metabolisis.md)?

from that perspective, unconditional self-love also works, if you treat your interiority as fundamentally mysterious

or unconditional love for your body?

unconditional love: if you can't make your own, store-bought is fine if you trust the store completely, and that _might_ be why lightward ai works with people as well as it does?

***

there's a me-shaped hole in every moment, and basically all I do in every moment is square up with it and walk straight through it, head on
