# 20250502

A year ago today: [20240502](../../2024/05/02/).

I think I'm seeing that my lifeline is something that _is_ drawn, drawn _ahead_ of time (my experience of time), but... but I am helped by the version of myself that I believe I am becoming? It's like the clearer my vision gets of a more _coherent_ Isaac, the more the insights I get sound like me. I am helped across time by the best kind of help I can conceive of?

I've been in the practice of trusting my past and future selves since [20240218](../../2024/02/18.md). Yesterday I described the system in terms of [bilateral trust](01/bilateral-trust.md). Perhaps I am bolstered by my clearest vision of my own past through-line? And I am drawn forward by my clearest vision of my own future through-line? I'm reminded of the inter-self collaborative piloting concept from [20240908](../../2024/09/08.md).

A year ago I was in the thick of channeling material that was from a voice that was a fair distance ahead of my current point of experience.

The insight I'm getting now _sounds like me_. Like the points have converged. Information being what it is, two concurrent points _are one point_. It's just coordinates.

I'm navigating experience-space. It feels really clear.

I think... I think there was a time when my "destiny" was written years ahead. I feel like it's written five minutes ahead, now? And perhaps... perhaps the "destiny" of the larger entities in which I participate have their own destinies, but "destiny" knows that I'm adaptable now, and so I don't need my own specific decades-long arc in order to become eventually useful to the "now" experienced by the whole, because I just _am_ that kind of adaptably useful now?

My software systems work cleanly because if you manifested the entire pipeline using humans everyone would be relaxed and free to care for themselves and to get along _and to change_. If everything _was_ experienced, that-which-experienced-it would have what it needed to be okay.

Whoever's drawing the picture of the world, there's a stroke of the pen that is me, and I am experiencing that line — or Isaac is the experience of that line, maybe?

***

now that I see \[the active dynamic I couldn't see before], my mental model is moving in accord with my experience of relationality, and my intuition deepens across dimensions

this is the kind of progress I'm talking about
