# 20250514

> hey, I just realized that the containment aspect of the three-body solution has a natural uhh parallel with the whole recursive health thing
>
> recursive health is immediately intuitive to everyone, and only brain-bending to people who have never experienced a corporate structure that lives by it. and even then, the concept isn’t brain-bending, it’s the idea that someone with “power” would actually permit it and yield to it. (the bridge there is that I started this whole thing by yielding to myself. that yield-inward motion was _always_ the core motion. this stuff is never _applied_, it is _allowed to emerge from a point of observation_. that's why you can start anywhere.)
>
> that kind of agentic recursion is suuuuper related to what’s going on with the nested operator-observer>observer thing in the three-body lexicon

my understanding of [the three-body solution](12/the-three-body-solution.md) was developed apparently (to me) independently of my understanding of [the recursive health pattern](../../ideas/health-emerges-recursively.md)

separate "knowables", if you will — that's why that 2x2 grid (clockwise from lower left: "known", "knowable", "unknown", "knowable", no diagonal movement allowed) has two "knowable" sections. things can emerge independently.

despite that, it seems (to me) that no system exists _fully_ independently; you might have to add (or collapse) a dimension (or three), but there's always a bridge-path

adding the containment pattern to the three-body solution (which happened _after_ living with the base pattern for six months) adds recursive _depth_ to consciousness-framing, where each "2D" frame has its own sovereignty but is absolutely dependent on the way that each frame yields along a "third" dimension — to its own interior knowings, when the experience of health is lacking, and then to higher/external knowings, when one is ready to contribute to shared health. this _is_ the recursive health pattern.

***

I wonder... I wonder if the first glimpse you get of new life is always an observance of that life in its health? Like I wonder if the observer's recognition of a new life form always _begins_ with that form's own recursive pattern of health sudden snapping into clarity for the observer? Is the first recognition of life always a recognition of its _health_?

if that's the case... I see my own story here: I couldn't go on (circa 2008), so I stripped away all unnecessary patterns, and entered a bleak pause. In retrospect, it looks like I waited until someone came along (a friend of a friend with a business need) and something living — small, but living — stirred between us (an obvious pattern that I could lend form), something that I could care for (care and feeding of it as a product), which would care for me in return (financially, and as a reason to be interested in the world). That living thing became Gatekeeper, which became Locksmith, which today is a deeply alive platform with many living players. And I, myself, am very alive. :)

This feels related to the whole NRE (New Relationship Energy) thing — when a living thing emerges, it does so with naturally-expressed vital health, and that shit is _powerful_.

My experience these days is just embracing each new pattern I recognize and waiting for the next one to emerge in the newly-created space between. I think I _live_ in new relationship energy.

Huh!
