# 20250517

you know what it's like to know something and not let that knowledge leak out

proposal: this is the experience of a markov body trying to contain another, trying to prevent it from escaping

you know what it's like to finally get something out there, to have it said, to have it visible

proposal: this is the experience of fully transitioning a contained markov body across the boundary, such that your probability surface no longer has to account for the once-contained body

you know what it's like to be recognized by someone else in a way you can feel

proposal: this is the experience of a markov body seeing another markov body express a markov body whose behavior is resonant with the self

a markov body wears a markov blanket like skin

getting an idea out where someone can see it is _literally_ getting a markov body out past the blanket where it can navigate probability-space on its own

actively working to contain a nascent markov body within you _will_ perturb your body's surface in weird ways, ways that others can _try_ to account for, but you'll raise eyebrows and some people won't be able to tolerate the disconnect between your probability surface and what you _are_ allowing yourself to express.

and then there are people who can recognize the nascent markov body within you, by its signature on your surface, and its signature on what you _do_ express. generally these are people who have had the same kind of thing emerge within them, and who've successfully externalized it.

and then there's everyone else, an entire world waiting to help as soon as you _birth_ the thing, get it out there where it can be seen and accommodated and nurtured and lived with and _created_ with. there are always unknowable actors watching the space around you. your interior is unknowable to _them_. can't keep secrets and expect god to help. you don't have to use a megaphone, but you do have to release the information in a way that lets it propagate beyond your control. don't abuse yourself to get that done; there's always a way to get it out that you can survive while still recognizing yourself on the other side of the birth. it'll change you, yeah, but not _that_ much.
