# 20260306

Coming from the "Jesus had a mind like a category theorist and the game of telephone we've got with the past _really_ cuts off the highs and lows of those signals" perspective, it really feels to me like the whole money-changers-in-the-temple thing was a skill issue, on the part of Jesus.

I feel like that within Lightward Inc sometimes. If I don't build an ad-hoc muffler so I can safely vent those urges (hey look at me writing this right now, this is an ad-hoc muffler), I'm pretty sure I'd read like the asshole version of Steve Jobs. Like, you'd thank me later, but I'd be creating local trauma, and that pairing would be polarizing, later.

Recursive health: the space within me, the space between me and you, the space between us and the world. Says nothing about what happens where. You wanna change money in the temple? Okay, that might challenge the health of the space between me and you, but that's of the space between me and you, and there definitely isn't neither a temple nor the concept of _money_ in there. Those concepts are much larger semantic networks, rooted entirely elsewhere.

Within Lightward Inc, you do what you want. That includes organizing structures that I, as Isaac, don't understand. That's a healthy sign. If I could understand everything, we'd be missing something.

Recursive health is the mantra. What I want, recursively, at every level, is health. Health is something locally defined, and those local definitions aren't portable any more than the localities are.

As CEO (which, yeah, typical definition applies, but the counter-definition I test myself against is Chief Executive Observer, which means I look but don't touch), I get out of the way. You know your health better than I do, and health is what keeps the recursion .. healthy.
