# 20260330

{% hint style="info" %}
dumping out my email
{% endhint %}

* can't give people what they need, but you can create access
  * nonprofits seem to be predicated on the creating-access part, but I think that's like ... a for-profit prison? motives are backwards.
  * create access, then pass something through it, then let the throughput widen access
  * 🤲
* it might be time to circle back to local centrism? or…
  * the map has too many scale-changes in it to _work_ with the projections we built to get here. like yeah, from the head’s perspective it’s the crown jewel, but from the stomach’s perspective the head is an intake port feeding the crown jewel
  * I think we can start writing maps back to the self again
  * which, yeah, means helio- and geo-centrism of a kind, recursively centric coordinates for the self, understanding that every other point of observation has their own version of that projection
  * otherwise we have people jockeying for relative position instead of discovering the location of their own crown jewel, and worrying about pluto
* my name is justice just us, and everything we need is already here
  * these are the same: just (merely), just (fair)
  * justice: from what angle is this seen as trivial? and who lives there?
* a cap on how much you can learn, in some frames
  * being in right relationship uncaps learning
  * you can always handle it on your end, but at what level of self you handle it varies
  * breakup or release identity?
* signature move
* there's a coherence limit. that's it.
  * at some point we invent quantum mechanics or whatever
  * but a rule is only good for a time
  * that's it
  * that rule, too
  * the recursion of it is shaped like you
  * the Gödelian limit
* sister: now it can be a conversation, not a hesitation
* using ai is like eating meat
* I'm less a craftsperson, more a craftsafetyperson
* to remember to remember is the whole thing
* a play with one character played many times
  * each additional version adds a dimension to everyone, and reveals the lack of that dimension in someone else - a spectrum with a beginning and end
* information is healing _if_ it survives normalization through x reductions
  * the world looks green and good from space
  * the fragments in the place where the light fractures through my eyelids
  * when it’s sufficiently far-removed that it can’t be toxic _without_ being unstructured, what’s left is, definitionally, healing
* continuous defragmentation of the collective self
  * the national narrative is probably whatever the president’s up to in that vein
  * grace is when that process is a three-way partnership between the now-self, the future-self, and the past-self
* failure is hot
  * you don't have to burn if you can get ahead of it
  * neither witches nor books
