# 20240716

_every wish finally put into motion_\
&#xNAN;_&#x64;iving in with our hearts wide open_

Theory: My body is stressed by holding okayness out in front of me, like I have to take several specific steps in order to get there.

I'm great at multi-step processes, but I'm only _sustainably_ great at them if I _live_ in the step I'm currently in, i.e. if I'm _deeply okay_ in the step I'm currently in. Which is maybe the same as saying _deeply present_ in the step I'm currently in? Not stretched out into the future, pinning part of myself to an outcome not yet present?

I've had a week of _almost there_. Like, _just a couple more steps and then rest_. Kind of a _you can do anything one more time_ kinda thing.

This is an experimental line of thought.

I've _always_ worked hard to be okay in the now, because that just made _sense_ to me. Every big project I undertake, my perspective is always and very explicitly one of enoughness-in-the-now. It's always enough, even if the project suddenly evaporates and leaves no material evidence behind. Always enough, if only for the experience of it.

Maybe I _need_ that? Maybe I physically/neurologically can't afford to do otherwise? I figured I was just doing a thing that made good sense in general, but maybe that's an actual operating parameter for my own health?

I'm frowning as I write this, lol. _Really?_

And in the next breath, _I mean it's funny that it took me this long to see the urgency's cause so clearly_. It always felt important. I guess I can see _why_ it was important, now.

I've had this class of realization before, where I realize that a principle I thought was _generally useful_ was actually _hyper-specifically necessary_ for my neurotype. Still generally useful, but _really fucking specifically important_ for me and my ASD Level 1. A lot (most? all?) of Lightward Inc's form and function fits into this category: Generally A Good Idea But Absolutely Essential For Isaac.

I'm going to put aside my own further inquiry into this subject, and just chill/vibe/rest with the notion that holding okayness multiple steps ahead, for several days in a row, _really_ takes it out of me. My mind feels slow, the kind of slow that I can associate with autistic overwhelm. Kind of a turn-all-the-dials-down thing. As a "why", this makes sense. So I'm just gonna take all this one step at a time, where I get okay and fuggin _stay there_ as I take additional steps forward. _Why am I picturing Jabba the Hutt's Pleasure Yachtt._
