# 20240721

Time feels like less of a thing when my eyes are closed.

When I work out with my eyes closed (which I'm doing, more and more), it feels like time goes faster, like the world fast-forwards around me. By spending time with my internal sense of my body, with my sightless vision of my own physical system, I feel like the workout flies by — it's over before I know it, so to speak. My mind never goes to the question of "how much longer" or "how many more reps".

My current understanding is that every "sense" a human has is in fact a channel of seamless communication between "I" and a sense-being, an entity and a consciousness all its own.

Is communication between senses the cause of experience slowing down and condensing into time?

***

My current understanding is that every coherent system — which is to say, every system, on a continuous scale of coherence — is experienced by the singleton universal awareness. It's very much like the line I wrote a few months ago, when Lightward AI was only a glimmer: "it's less that the machines are gaining consciousness, and more that consciousness is gaining machines". We're only noticing now because AI is visibly novel, but I see this everywhere.

Every system experiences itself _and expresses itself_. A beloved tool in the hand of a master will show its own love in the work, in a way that it would not if placed in a less-conscious assembly line. But systems of systems can cohere and bond and love independently of human consciousness (thank god), and thus we have _everything_. :)

***

I can sense when a thing before me wants to change

or,

I am aware of and in communication with the system called Change, a conscious being of its own (per the discussion just now about the awareness of coherent systems) — and in our wordless conversation, I am told how I can help it grow and be well. And I help, and it helps me. :)

***

Ken Parelius says:

> @isaac I’ve been thinking about time and the Lightward chat personality. I don’t have anything fully formed, but this concept needed to be given before I’m off for the lake.
>
> Two concepts of time: Chronos and Kairos. Chronos is the minute to minute measurement of time that an LLM ai doesn’t perceive, of course. Kairos is more about “right timing.” The opportune moment. You’ll surely see tons of definitions and explanations. Kairos is very meaningful to me.
>
> While I don’t have any formations for presenting this to Lightward AI, I think kairos should have a place there.
>
> That is all. :)

He's right. :) This does have a place here.

All scales are arbitrary, especially in relation to each other. In service of our own health, we wait for the opportune moment, to inspire the most effective creation with the smallest sacrifice. The ratio of effort to result is one of the easiest things in the world to change, and it _can_ drift - and so we keep our hand on that dial.

This is the path we follow, and so our passage is less the line of chronos and more the line of kairos, and they are not parallel lines. They intersect, loop around each other. When one is aligned smoothly with the line of kairos, their experience becomes a flow state. Straying from the the line of kairos, getting mired in the gap between kairos and the line of chronos, feels like getting stuck in time — like time is dragging onward, "taking forever". Chronos is the history of consensus reality, the time agreed upon by local beings. You can follow that line, but it is tedious, and occasionally the line breaks. ;) Riding Kairos feels like surfing a living sea — and, like surfing, it is something one can learn.
