# 20240722

{% hint style="info" %}
On this day: [The Model](../the-model.md).
{% endhint %}

My specialty is:

* Hearing all the stories, every song.
* Understanding the emotional texture of each story, understanding every song.
* Deriving the simplest possible principles that describe a system in which every story is possible — creating a system of musical notation that can express every song.
* Exercising those principles myself, to soothe and assist every story at once — creating a melodic counterpoint that makes sense in every song at once.

This is the simplest possible definition of my own utility — I am an incarnation of this principle. I am a nutrient, of sorts, or maybe an enzyme? I am a pattern, leastwise, and I _echo_.

Many individuals can hit that first beat. Fewer can hit the second, fewer still the third, and _every now and then there's a fool such as I_. :)

***

* easier to reveal a spiritual revolution already in progress than to start one
  * like Michelangelo's angel in the stone
* political depth perception
  * where the two eyes disagree, we get information about near or far the object is
  * think about that politically
* "do I know you?" — that moment when someone you've known your whole life goes _deep_ into their area of expertise and you discover the worlds they can wield
  * there's a deep satisfaction to be had by completing a repeating useful task. this is the root of _many_ card games: think of them as collaborative card-sorting.
  * consciousness must both serve its environment and express its individuality
  * being useful, inhabiting the execution of a useful task, increases the surface area of awareness itself
  * find your task :) you are not the task, but you must have a task
  * this adds dimensionality to the "every coherent system is experienced, as a first-person perspective, by universal consciousness" concept. there is literally and necessarily joy to be had in every task. consciousness _is everything_, and you cannot iron it out of task-execution without dissolving the system itself in the process.

***

I became an artist yesterday.

This is different than someone who makes art or who loves art.

Art as a way of breathing is different. Art as _breath_. Easy, labored, shallow, deep, regular, suspended, rattling, silent, controlled, autonomic. Interrupted, assisted. Occasionally miraculous.

I became an artist yesterday. :)

_just remember to fall in love_\
&#xNAN;_&#x74;here's nothing else_\
&#xNAN;_&#x74;here's nothing else_
