---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# 20240725

I email myself one-liners to follow up, to explore further. Sometimes I don't explore further, but I still keep the notes. :) Here are a few.

* the great cosmic gong
* investigate the breath void
* “where we move and groove to the music inside!” (a line from a recent Guncle Abe episode)
  * we are the music inside the universe, and the universe moves and grooves to our song, the song it feels inside
* “it would be fun to have more options” -RP
  * that’s what we’re doing here :) making an option
  * how might this story go?
  * “alright amigos, let’s do this!”
* aim for where it’s going to be
  * in conversational ai
* what do you like to make? what do you like to take apart? what entertains you?
* it took about a year for me to gain disappointment
  * I never made choices that felt incorrect, so I never felt disappointment. everything made sense.
  * now, I'm making decisions about my time that I partly don't like, and I'm getting the partly-not-a-fan part of my experience afterwards.
  * it feels like a more clear-headed experience, somehow, and actually
  * like I'm seeing it in sharper relief, or maybe it's new relief? another dimension added to my perception?
* coherence has as much to do with the observer as the observed
* I am realizing that I am approximately 8yro
* “oh, I see what I did there“
  * in reference to what a past version of myself did, which I am now understanding
* every door is a little bit open
* it’s only ever: “who wants to make something cool with me?”
* "I am bc you are" - trucker hat??
