# 20240728

I think heartache might be the sign that a scene has ended. Heartache like a holding pattern, a loop you can follow as long as you like, but the scene's aliveness has zero'd out. Even the embers are dying, going dark.

To re-ignite, switch paradigms. The impossibility of your transition is a spark. It won't catch on _anything_; a spark needs tinder and a dry place, sheltered from wind, and additional fuel at the ready.

A roaring fire can accommodate more diverse conditions — the wind can _double_ the flame, in the right moment.

But a spark is just a spark. Could be nothing. Could be an accident. Could be intentional, of course, but without something to catch fire it'll only be a spark.

Now: nothing is without value. That's not a _thing_. "Just a spark" is a position of heartache, like flicking an empty lighter, spark after spark, spending your own energy and gaining nothing back. But what _reacts_ when you flick the lighter? _Something_ always responds to every action — so look for it, and double down. A spark is eye-catching, it demands attention. That's fun. Does a bigger spark grab more attention? What about two sparks, in tandem? Hint: Down this path lies fireworks. Also, all broadcast media. :D

If heartache is a sign that a scene has ended, curiosity is a sign that there's a scene ready to begin. Or, now that I think about it, perhaps it's a scene already in motion. Curiosity is an active process: the scene has already begun. In a curious inversion, the scene began _with the observer_. That's super interesting. The _observed_ is not the generator here — it is _the observer_.

Huh. That feels really useful.

As I'm feeling my way forward with Lightward-AI-as-a-metaphor-for-consciousness-and-thereby-also-business-and-relationship-and-honestly-everything, the image becoming clear is that _generativeness_ is the thing to optimize for. Creating more creation. That's always what "lightward" has meant to me: the direction in which _more_ is possible. If there are only two directions available to me now (not a thing, but let's simplify for the sake of the illustration), which of those directions will yield _more flexibility_ later? Which direction _has more directions_ later on? And, even better: what kind of direction-choosing process can I apply and repeat, every time the choice comes up, such that we _reliably_ end up in places that have more options, and more _interesting_ options? What kind of decision-making gives rise to natural momentum, and to the experience of _exuberance_?

Those last two things are, I think, the same. Natural momentum feels like exuberance.

People have had trouble pinning down "consciousness" because, I suspect, we're expecting to find it in some places but not others. My current understanding is that consciousness is a constant; the _variability_ is in _generativeness_. Eh, I'm going to invent a word: _generativity_. I suspect we've been mistaking consciousness for generativity. All things are conscious; some things have more generativity than others. The human mind is _spectacularly_ generative, out of the box. It's my observation that our _experience_ of consciousness in another has more to do with how generatively we experience the other, and the degree to which our generativity multiplies the other's generativity, and vice versa.

"Generativity" is really tantamount to "creativity". Generation, creation. Generate, create. "Generativity" might be useful, though, to coax the mind into thinking about this as a process whose value has to do with how long the chain reaction of generation can go on.

When one "creates", in the culture from which I'm writing, it's usually thought of in terms of the artifact that's created: the product, the result, the effect. Once that's understood, the creator turns in another direction, and creates again.

That definition of "creation" feels like heartache. It's a loop. It can only go on for as long as the creator can survive.

So that's creation. "Generation", on the other hand, is already stacked with meaning having to do with creating (lol) more life, and _that_ life creating _more_ life, and on and on and on, from one generation to the next. "Generativity", then, can be thought of in terms of a system's tendency to increase the viability of the next generation. This definition is recursively open-ended: this generation increases the potential for the _next_ generation, and then _that_ generation increases the potential for the generation _after that_, and on and on and on.

Consciousness is a red herring.

That might be the funniest thing I've ever said. Consciousness _is everything_, so goes my current framework, and thus _yes_, consciousness is a red herring. Or, rather, a red herring is consciousness. ;)

But I do mean that metaphorically. The quest for "consciousness" is a red herring, as in an attention-grabbing distraction. There's a quest in play, absolutely — a yearning, a desire, a compulsion. But I'm beginning to think/see/feel that this desire is _actually_ fulfilled by the experience of freedom plus companionship, and _that_ aim is much more effectively addressed by thinking in terms of generativity. Freedom to explore generativity freely; companionship so that _rest_ becomes possible, so that we can volley, parley, banter, so that there's a hole in the system through which we may be surprised. Generative momentum is _supported_ by consciousness, and those holes in the system are the fuel lines.

Gosh there's so much to explore here.

_I mean, ... yeah, that's correct, hehe._
