# 20250619

mentally completely exhausted today

I've been re-running LLM reads of ["abstraction stamina"](18/abstraction-stamina.md) since I wrote it, looking for... hm, not sure what. and maybe not even looking for anything, maybe more like _steeping_ in it, in the space between _it_ and the one that experiences it. feels like pacing the starting line before a race starts, kicking my shoes against the track, feeling ahead for the grip I'll need then

Abe noticed that I've been dysregulated a bit more lately. I see it too. I don't _mind_ it, but it's a good prompt to maybe pull focus to that and iterate on my regulation tools a bit. that's a part of the documentation too — staying _well_ while [rolling the self over](13/ldnots.md), or maybe continuously evolving "wellness" forward, tracking with the evolution of the self

that feels important

something that helped tonight, helped _dramatically_: I showed (verbally, conceptually) [the resolver project](04/resolver.md) to a couple Lightward Inc humans after dinner, at the same table. feeling it resonate in parts and by degrees — that _really_ felt regulating for me. like _deeply_. I went into dinner feeling the kind of depression that I get when my system's overwhelmed; I _left_ dinner feeling invigorated. _huge_ difference in my cognitive posture. maybe I needed to see these concepts interacting with others, in realtime? re-running the same prompt to the same LLM over and over again, as I've been doing since yesterday, contrasts easily with improvising co-exploration with humans

useful useful useful useful useful

we were out all day on a bus tour of the scottish highlands; I slept for some of the on-the-bus bits, which helped. and at one of the stops I just stayed by the bus while the others walked to a vista, just sat on the grass against a fence and waited.

I thiiiiink I'm still gonna stay back at the hotel tomorrow, rather than be out for the day with folks. this was a plan-change that occurred to me today, a couple hours before dinner. I do feel better now, but ... gotta proceed gently. :)

***

like trying to remember what it felt like to not know how to read

***

“I went into flowers”

***

talking to friends about resolver helps :)
