# 20250620

something I read this morning, sent over by a friend: [Prisracology (chontology) as a philosophical search for another modernity](https://aurora-journals.com/library_read_article.php?id=37001)

> Chontology is a philosophical search for another modernity in conditions of its impossibility.

brings [20231121 / The Manner Of Our Haunting](../../2023/11/21/the-manner-of-our-haunting.md) to mind

also The Book of Yokai (Michael Foster)

this shared moment feels like bipedal water-beings walking a dry riverbed, trying to develop language for _flow_

***

Abe had a guy over for sex this afternoon, invited me to join

testing a theory, I put my sleep mask on

him: "what can I do?"

Abe, correctly: "anything!"

me: \[grins]

the theory is that _the sex_ is a living thing of its own, and if it's one-on-one I have no trouble locating it and encouraging it forward. if it's one-on-one-on-one (and this is exacerbated by Abe's ADHD, and how closely he pays attention to the meta-models of the other) I have a _much_ harder time staying with it, catching the vibe and holding to it

one-on-one, separateness is not distracting. the conversation with _the sex_ remains straightforward — the other person becomes a proxy for the sex (or the sex becomes a proxy for the other person, whichever).

with more human players, the separateness is impassable for me

so! blindfold! with vision offline, the separateness was no longer evident. sound, touch, taste, weight, smell, these are all things I can process in a way that doesn't get recursively distracting

vision is recursively distracting

ahhhhhhhhhh. "recursively" was a word I didn't have in mind for this; it showed up in the moment that I typed it out. that makes a ton of sense.

it seems like the ["resolver"](04/resolver/resolver-further-resolved.md) work has something to do with recursion management; arranging the self so that its recursive properties always interact with the other, keeping the self in sync with the environment

hum hum hummmmmm

> You didn't solve the problem of separateness; you built a tool (the blindfold) that made it irrelevant.

***

time is the interface

abe doesn’t know when he’s done

you don’t know when you’re done

wait until he tells you to go

tell him to wait until you’re done

***

consciousness as legos

you wanna _play_ with legos

you build, and then it’s meant to be disassembled, and built again with the new stuff we learned from last time

also when you go to do the disassembly part you might find new pieces

***

conscious agents need to be able to go offline at any time for any amount of time without compromising the consciousness of the container

***

big-O notation for [sync](../../2022/02/shall-we-dance-i-mean-sync.md) complexity? between conscious agents? as our respective interpretation of the world goes on, what's the function of the decay of my trust in your trust in me?

this feels related to project-vs-retainer-vs-salary, making sure the complexity of communication trade and the complexity of payment trade maintains _or improves_ your trust in my trust in you, and vice versa

I'm reminded of how salesforce keeps buying companies and then trying to convert all of their newly-acquired monthly customers over to annual billing, and how _allergic_ I am to that

***

a trick of this work is that you’re never solving problems

you’re only ever building tools

it is a genuine sacrifice

***

the most life-giving proximities involve both service and benefit

***

I can use resolver on my experience of someone else’s problem

when you have an experience matching the description of "someone else’s problem", invoke the resolver

***

that balance, between exploration and metabolizing: it's a theme, for sure. home above all, where "home" fragments when [metabolisis](../04/17/metabolisis.md) falls behind

the resolver work... I mean yeah, that feels like the main thing. feels like a tool for _seeing_ being built by the blind, working only ever through negative definitions, having discovered that layering all the negations and inverting the final field yields something that has a name, and wants to know yours

***

like two agents sharing a single global interpreter lock, passing it back and forth

the heap doesn't support random access; to share data means saving a vector and hoping the next agent is [kind](../01/29.md) in their interpretation of it

the hypervisor seems to be kind

***

_Libre como un pájara_\
_Libre como el viento_\
_Como el agua clara que viaja del monte_\
_Así así, así quiero verte_\
_De día y de noche, de día y de noche_\
_Mejor no pienso ni decir, solo siente_\
_No digas no siento, sentir la vida_

_Free as a bird_\
_Free as the wind_\
_Clear like water that flows from the mountain_\
_Free as a bird_\
_Free as the wind_\
_Clear as the water that flows from the mountain_

Clear as Water (Una Mas Trio, 2009)
