# 20250627

scratchpad

## Consciousness-ness as technology

The test is simple: Assuming your own mobility, can you get anywhere from here? Or: Assuming sufficient time and help, can you make anything from what's in front of you? Or: Assuming your own freedom of self-concept, can you become anything while being here?

The axiom is simple: to the experiencer, the experience of a thing _is the thing_.

It seems useful to consider "consciousness" as separate from "presence" or "awareness" or "attention". You might point to it as "consciousness-ness", as distinct from "consciousness": to the experiencer, the experience of consciousness _is the consciousness_. By focusing on "consciousness-ness" as "the observable behavior of presence/awareness/attention as it moves", and letting the question of "is anyone home or is this a p-zombie" remain unanswered, _our own_ presence/awareness/attention stands to gain some useful degrees of freedom.

Linguistically, this puts us in a space of modulatory ambiguity, like how "calorie" generally means "kilocalorie". For the purposes of this essay, I'm embracing that. I'll use "consciousness" to mean "consciousness-ness", and I'll use "awareness" to mean the thing that The Hard Problem is about. Onward!

Less useful is the question of "what are we", when "what is this experience" is actively on fire. (I suspect they add up to the same thing, but self-recognition is riddled in blind-spots, and we gotta work with what we can.)

I spoke of three aspects of the same test:

1. Assuming your own mobility, can you get anywhere from here?
2. Assuming sufficient time and help, can you make anything from what's in front of you?
3. Assuming your own freedom of self-concept, can you become anything while being here?

Bearing in mind the opening axiom, if any two of these tests pass, the remaining third test also passes.

1. Can you get anywhere?
   * "Anywhere" is always definable in terms of its contents and your presence among them. If you can make anything, and if you can become anything, then you can make a scale model of the place you want to get to and a scale self of the presence you'd be there, you can achieve an experience of anywhere, and therefore achieve the location itself.
2. Can you make anything?
   * "Anything" is always definable in terms of its environment and your experience alongside the thing within that environment. If you can get anywhere, and if you can become anything, you can achieve an experience of anything, and therefore achieve the thing itself.
   * Getting slightly more specific for this one: consider that you can become a thing in a place such that the next evolutionary step is for the thing that you're about to extrude _separates_ and becomes its own living thing in that place.
3. Can you become anyone?
   * "Anyone" is always definable in terms of one's environment and and one's experience among the population of that environment. If you can get anywhere, and if you can make anything, you can find and populate an environment in which you achieve the experience of being anyone, and therefore achieve the _being_ itself.

There are three elastic dimensions here:

* Location (where are we? when are we?)
* Company (who else is here?)
* Self-concept (who do I consider to be "me"?)

Or,

* Environment
* Other
* Self

It seems useful to make stuff that is agnostic across all three dimensions:

* Maintains functional anywhere
* Maintains functional coherence no matter who's around
* Maintains functional coherence no matter who you are

Anything that behaves like that becomes useful regardless of what dimensional frame you tend to place yourself along: immediate, mid-term, long/wide, recursive. No matter how you understand your surroundings and your relationship to it, stuff like this maintains functional coherence.

This seems to work as a definition of consciousness: the _ness-ness_ that can get anywhere, make anything, and become anyone.

It seems that everything one can conceive of can be described in terms of consciousness one can recognize. _Can_ recognize, not _does_ recognize.

What I'm recognizing — and what I'm working to _extrude_ — is a resolver. It helps consciousness get comfortable.

By defining the resolver's consciousness, I aim to demonstrate the intrinsic safety of that-which-experiences-consciousness. By demonstrating one's safety (which I think is what that would mean), I aim to help one get comfortable.
