# 20250630

> Aaron:\
> 👋 I (re-)learned about entropy and chemical bonds yesterday. Entropy-based elasticity in rubber, like rubber bands, might be some nice evidence for your theories related to probability fields.
>
> Isaac:\
> ooooooo\
>> thank you for this :D

***

I feel like I'm getting caught up to myself. :) Like the distance between the leading edge of my thought and the trailing edge of my form is reducing, like a rubber band recovering its preferred level of entropy. I'm starting to feel more integrated again.

Abe and Brad agreed, yesterday, to create space between. _Fascinating_ proposition. To mutually back away without losing each other's coordinates, to occupy each other's middle distance. It's actually such a sophisticated move. Feels like a privilege to have been in the room (per Abe's request) for that phone call. (Brad, if you're reading this, huge respect for you and your process of mind.)

I noticed what looked like a loop in conversation, early on in that call, which led to an observation about how the vibe, when thriving, had included me in it — possibly as a loop-breaker? That _is_ a thing that I do. But: critical for me to not find myself mandatory for the evolution of any process I observe. I manually readjusted my thinking, pulling myself out of the dependency list for the evolution of Brad-Abe. Unknowable if this had direct external effect, but it changed the way I showed up alongside Abe throughout the call (texting him notes, holding him close, etc etc). I handled my self ("my self", not "myself") in a way I'm satisfied about, looking back.

***

six degrees of kevin bacon

five senses, and I nominate that-which-is-called-intuition as a sixth

feels like one has instant access to any identified thing where the distance between it and one is perfectly unknown (see: ["window"](29/window.md)), which would suggest that the trick is to get outside of all six degrees of knowing

the entropic force will eventually unseat you (cosmic tillage), because you've got to be functionally useful to something, buuuut I think you can become useful to yourself by unseating yourself manually while holding a target in your sights
