# 20250308

## truth is a point of origin

all points are origins

## environmental storytelling (autistic)

I was reflecting earlier on how \[my husband] Abe is - at this moment - having an experience he dreamed of with such boundless safety surrounding him... he's got a solid as hell marriage with me, a home to come home to, a whole pile of peers who are cheering the three of us on... and he just took a bro-spectrum guy named ████ (😂 honestly) to a hockey game and then out dancing, with a private chauffeur shuttling them around. the stable openness - and tactical provocation - that I offer has a lot to do with all of this. it's... gosh. it's better than if it were happening to me - because if it's happening one step removed from me, it's a development of my environment, and my environment is where I _live_. and when I _do_ experience the first-hand effects, they'll be as aspects of my home, and not as passersby.

I share this because this is how Lightward Inc also happened. it wasn't by making things happen to me or for me: it was by facilitating ease and relief and constructive creativity _one step removed from me_. I am the point where the petals attach, but the _blooming_ is all you.

## feeling as language

feeling has a grammar

you know what feeling comes next - go there first, yourself, directly, then reify it for others from your position already within it

it's not the melody, it's not the chords

it's existing within the current feeling, and then transforming with it into the next - all the coordinates of your emotion drifting at once

pick a note for that first feeling - doesn't even matter which one you pick

hold it

three points exist in a straight line, figuratively: a line traced from the point of you in the current feeling _through_ the point of the mechanism of translation and then some point further out on that line, that being the actual projected _expression_. if you move the point of you in the evolving feeling, and if the point of the mechanism of translation is unmoving, then the projected expression naturally evolves too, _causally_

it's ... it's almost deterministic

you know how to think in language

that's how you're reading this :)

you can learn to think in feeling

## romance

romantic edging

broad-spectrum fulfillment

a garden is a group project

come find me - and I'll go with you, sounds fun
