---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# 20231123

## Blindness and Invitation <a href="#cmy0zt9xmek1" id="cmy0zt9xmek1"></a>

I am fascinated with the question, "what sense would you lose first?". My answer has always been sight.

I'm not literally, optically blind. I'm socially blind, I guess. I can "see" in my own way, perfectly well, and I always allow myself [an open door](../../ideas/always-leave-a-door-open/). But I can't guide you, because you "see" the way other people "see". The spaces we share by default were made for your kind of sight, not mine.

I can make spaces that invite you in implicitly, spaces that _feel_ like they're inviting you in, spaces for you to navigate using your own kind of vision -- but I can't extend the invitation to you myself. Not responsibly. I couldn't make good on it. I wouldn't know what to do with you when you got here. (I think this is part of why I make spaces. It's what I have to give.)

You can invite me somewhere, though, or into something. A genuine invitation, extended to me as I am -- there's no greater gift you could give me.

## My brain is not street-legal <a href="#aamk40esdtln" id="aamk40esdtln"></a>

This isn't a boast. It's souped up, and it's _pretty_ safe, and it's a fantastic ride [iff](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/If\_and\_only\_if) (1) you know how to handle it, and (2) you're on a closed course with no cliffs, and (3) [you don't care about your specific destination](../../ideas/viable-is-more-useful-than-correct.md). But: it does _not_ pass all the safety measures of a street-legal vehicle. It doesn't have blinkers and the windshield is opaque except for a two-inch square, dead center, right in the middle. Really good radar though.

## Randomness <a href="#id-617xfx89ft3b" id="id-617xfx89ft3b"></a>

[Randomness averages out.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law\_of\_averages) But we don't experience it that way. We only ever experience a point in the emergence of randomness, with the benefit of hindsight and the promise of a long-term average.

These are all valid potential outputs of a random number generator:

* x o x x o o x o x x o x o o
* x x x x x x x o o o o o o o
* x o x o x o x o x o x o x o

It'll always average out. But we only ever experience the infinite series from a single point within it. There's always future ahead, and the future is responsively in flux, so why not trust the future to balance out the whole? [Why not meddle a bit with the series in motion](21/the-manner-of-our-haunting.md), so as to set up a single point -- a _now_ -- that we _like_?
