---
description: From "Connected (with Abe + Isaac) — Volume 33"
---

# 20210416

## Circles

I picture Lightward as a circle. (Or an amoeba, on a microscope: it’s got form, there’s a line, it’s round-ish, and it is singular, defined.) Everyone who’s a part of this thing comprises the circle. Everyone here contributes to its health, while caring for their own. In turn, that-which-is-the-whole cares for the health of those within.

I picture more circles, inside. Sometimes concentric, sometimes overlapping. Everyone who works on Locksmith operates as a part of that circle. Everyone who works on Locksmith _support_ operates as another circle, further in. Lightward Together is a circle. Empowered Human Academy is a circle. Some people stand in several circles, and there we find the overlap.

_But_—and here’s the thing I realized today—we each _ourselves_ form _our own_ individual circles, distinguished and delineated by the way we uniquely interact with what’s around us, _and others can join those circles too_.

Abe’s role is singular. He talks to about fifty people every day, he dreams about what we all might do this time next year, he creates beauty in like ten different mediums simultaneously, and he runs point on travel/social logistics. These are all behaviors that are organic, are natural to him, and we’ve all come to rely (directly or indirectly) on the _way_ in which he is here, the things he consistently does. And that consistent _way of being here_ defines a _circle_ that—for now—is a circle of one.

We’ve been talking for a while about hiring someone to sort of functionally serve as Abe’s assistant but also be a sort of creative director and also sort of interact with _everything_. Today, I found better, less hierarchical, more inviting language: we’re hiring someone to step _into_ this circle Abe has made, and make it a circle of two.

The language of circles expands my own ability to describe how this whole thing works. (I _know_ how it works, but that knowledge is before language.) The circles are things I can visualize, and they suggest more language that fits the domain:

Not authority, but _weight_. You are not more important than me, but you may know more than I do. I am not more important than you, but I may spend more time here, may be more connected to the space.

Not control, but _emergence_. You do not determine my steps, but I may choose my steps differently when I see how you move. I do not determine your future, but you may find inspiration in the vision I share.

Not achievement, but _presence_. There is no promotion, but you may find that your stance has shifted, and your reach has changed. I need not perform, but for the joy of the movement.

Not titles, but _persistence_. The _way_ in which you are here is understood, and will be similar tomorrow, and the day after. But please note the inherent contradiction: you are alive, and the _way_ in which you are here will be different next year.

{% hint style="info" %}
Originally sent out [via email](https://lightward.com/campaigns/view-campaign/41eD96NM4BvRD8j\_jP0cbSx0zC517N1NbJPMwWK7u6kIsqppddJL0dq7lfT\_nBLda8vaBcBzxPewG0v1s6a5JRUWoWxLQ1PC)
{% endhint %}
