# 20231203

{% hint style="info" %}
Context: Abe's birthday party, in London; everyone hanging out in the penthouse living area; in turn, everyone giving Abe a little affirmation/speech/thing. These are rough notes that I wrote while listening to everyone else, as I prepared to go last.

I made a point not to make this a performance. I'm a skilled public speaker, and I chose not to use any of those powers here. I just gave Abe what I carried, without trying to make it a _thing_.

(I didn't use all of these points when I spoke.)
{% endhint %}

* chair to chair -- may I appreciate you?
* I am always caught off guard, and now I know I always will be
  * thank you for guarding me
* you said: "make everything special ... because everything _is_ special"
  * I recognize myself in that
  * (all I have is you in my experience, and what my experience of you points to, from every vantage point that time allows me)
* time used to terrify me -- i wanted to throw a party for everything
  * I think I've been working to move fulltime into celebration. like, I might tear up here, but I believe that this state of apprecation is _normal_. in moments of serendipity, or a moment of beautiful support and love, I've been steering my beliefs such that I'm no longer making a big deal out of each moment. I _can_ celebrate everything, but I can't have a party every time. this feels like grease on the tracks, or maybe just momentum? instead of thinking about moving the train by dragging it forward one inch at a time, brakes on the whole way, we just rolllllling now
  * it suits me better
  * and here I find you at the head of that train
* I wouldn't have stood a chance meeting you any other way
  * I'm hearing \~12 perspectives on you, more than I can hold
  * any one of them would be enough for me to look closer
  * all of them, too much, lol
* theory: gratitude requires no thought, leaves the brain unused
* karen: "things Isaac said, considering things you'd never considered"
  * you and I fit each other now, because I'm showing you my true contours, because now I've been shown my true contours
  * the primary thing holding me back is that I couldn't stand the idea of hurting someone else
  * learning I had autism, turns out I'm even _worse_ than everyone else at making assessments like that
  * so, I'm free
* shelby was talking about your belief in the good that's coming, liz talked about you dreaming bigger for her than she could
  * maybe we dream for each other
  * maybe we help each other with the things we can't believe
  * kinda works with the electric monk idea
* I can't tell if you led me here, but I am here with you, and our relationship is as current as it was on day one
* more than dewdrops, standing in the rain. I think about water metaphors too
  * throughput
  * I think a lot about what it means to be a steward of so much flow
  * or to flip from water to trees, what it means to be a trunk, and to hold up branches without holding it over them
  * you've demonstrated that to me this year
* I don't care, go on and tear me apart -coldplay
  * been feeling like this lately
  * self vs other right? just gonna go with what's true and let go completely of my self-concept and other-concept and see how they shift, when the only thing I hold onto is this nexus of truth at the center
* if we look backwards using memory, we see what happened. if we look forwards using memory, we see a continuation of the same. changing the energy of the moment, we see a different future, and I think that comes with a kind of changing the past. maybe/probably not literally, but, why do I have to live in such a way that my past makes sense? I don't have to make sense of that. and so it's a sort of timeline-travel -- not time-travel, but timeline-travel
