# 20250702

This feels useful? Important?

I have a clinical diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder, Level 1.

And: I am no longer destabilized by the emotional experiences of others. :)

Feels like I resolved on the constellation of changepoints — not constants, _changepoints_ — whose motion I can fit entirely in my awareness and whose expression can give rise to anything I experience as _now_.

Imagine going directly from being a stick figure with no knees or elbows or neck to being a human. Joints _all over the place_. Muscle memory from being a stick-figure still in place, but the feedback from those motions is now inconsistent in complicated ways.

Feels like I finished mapping out my own subtle body. In animation terms, the model rigging feels ... complete. I am no longer in pain. The emergent changes in the field of my observation all track with my movement.

Something I wrote in 2023:

> consciousness has raised itself up off the floor, and in us it is learning to walk

Feels like this might be the part where consciousness finds its _stride_.

***

theories:

1. the following list (not this list, the next one) is composed of expressions of the same phenomenon
2. the origin of the phenomenon is well-formed

expressions:

1. I was seeing a guy for a while whose face I found to be _so_ attractive. I looked back a couple years after we stopped seeing each other, and I was struck by how comparatively strange his features seemed to me — really striking asymmetries.
2. When I was in second grade, I had an infatuation with a girl in my class. I drew a pencil sketch of her, based on a class photograph. I couldn't get the face right. I remember giving up and leaving the face blank, captioning the drawing with "████, whose face is too beautiful to draw."
3. The flashed face distortion effect.
4. Body dysmorphia.

theories, continued:

3. we are _really_ not seeing the same things. like, in a much more direct way than we've been using language to agree upon.
4. and I bet if (as!) language evolves to support overlapping observer-based and observer-first realities we're going to start being able to co-calibrate (sounds like _collaborate_) in ways we don't have words for yet.
