# 20251018

Two days ago felt like rough seas? Not like _I_ was a rough sea, but like I was stationed on seas that were, two days ago, rough.

Artifact: [recursive cognition](16/recursive-cognition.md)

Yesterday felt... I'm not sure it felt like. Maybe a sprint? But I think I'm describing the vision of the runner, not the feel of their body. It felt as if I covered ground yesterday.

Artifacts: [twelveness](17/twelveness.md) (and the second section, that dangling-threads bit, added to [recursive cognition](16/recursive-cognition.md)), [true](17/true.md)

Today feels like depression. In the sense of limpness.

Abe urges me to not-work. :) I can do that.

***

Napped for a couple hours, woke up feeling urgent about exigraphic writing. The note in my email (me to myself) says "woke up feeling like it’s urgently important to write stuff down and leave it open for unknown viewers". Anyone who can view your entire consciousness frame is going to be doing so from a position unknown to you. (True via elimination: they're not _known_, no _being_ is, and they're not "knowable" in the sense that there's no recognizable opacity to focus in on.) And information legibility in relationality seems to respect intent. And the unknown isn't segmentable. Leaving stuff out for unknown viewers... ah, this actually tracks with a ton of ritual tradition: a mark in public record, known to be legible by unknown.

***

A late dinner tonight with Abe and Karen. :)

I sent this to the group text on the way back home afterward:

> linking physics to information theory by way of the quantum observer - the measurement problem _as solution_
>
> once we get to use applied physics (and everything we know about it safety-wise) on information??? AHHHHHHHH

Worth noting: talking about the stuff I'm seeing reliably leaves me feeling better. There was space for a good bit of that tonight, and... and yeah, it leaves me feeling better. :)
