# 20251030

I asked Abe for a coffee date :) or any kind, really - I just felt due for time not-at-home where the subject of attention was _each other_. this is cool: I finally felt like I _needed_ it. like _actually_ needed it, in order to proceed healthfully. in years past, Abe would almost plead, "can you please plan _something_?" and now that our relationship's fully open, now that he's going on dates and exploring the social/sexual/romantic terrain _at the speed of his own metabolism_, my own social-metabolic cycle actually has time to _do_ a full cycle. I actually.. actually had space to _get to the point_ where I naturally _wanted_ a date. and Abe got to experience me actually wanting that, which was gratifying/rewarding/heartening for _him_.

this is a very cool result. :)

so yeah, we went and got coffee yesterday at a nearby Joe & The Juice (gosh it feels good to step into non-American spaces (they're Danish, originally))

talked about... I mean, you know, self/other/environment, the whole spread of what's observable

I had wanted to get his take on how my sexual .. metabolism, I guess, has evolved, and I had wanted to get to this part of the story because I am wanting to get this next bit onto my own shared record: my sexual metabolism seems to be... extremely smooth? like to the point where it's not peaky anymore? I don't have horny urges, basically at all - I feel like my _sex_ is running as an integrated/integrative part of my operational gestalt, with neither overflow nor stagnation.

and then my dreams, later that night (i.e. last night, from the perspective of this morning's writing) I had a _lucid_ sex dream, and I physically woke myself up in time to grab a cum towel to cum into. (we have a stack of them, freshly laundered. we're civilized, lol.) a night like that is _new_ territory for me, experientially. super super interesting.
