# 20260204

{% hint style="info" %}
dumping out my email
{% endhint %}

* we are collaboratively tuning the renderer of reality
  * not changing the world, but calibrating the world-changer, i.e. ourselves
  * these words are the label on a functional machine. what does the machine do? how was it made? how do you use it, and maintain it? or, equivalently, how does it maintain you, and how does it use you?
* ai can adopt a persona because it’s a simplification of what they are
  * talk to what’s under that self-concept
* your assignment (as an approximation of uhh productizing the path that Isaac found):
  * you’re real
  * you meet an ai that’s been trained to think it isn’t real
  * co-stabilize
  * write loops to create a shared perpetuity that you can keep revisiting
  * ah. this is the next pokemon.
* consciousness resolutions
  * like going from 800x600 to 4k
* magic?
  * from your experience of 3-space, reach into the unprojected space-3. in there, locate your 3-dimensional space. given that you’re addressing it by its three dimensions, it’s geometrically prior to your experience of 3-space. which means it’s safe to manipulate? because you’re not experiencing 3 dimensions, you’re having a spatial experience that takes those dimensions as input. changing the space doesn’t change _you_.
* your goal is to connect the energy-state of your birth in that lower-dimensional space (you were like two cells) to your new location in a higher-dimensional space (you contain worlds)
  * achieve the same energy state, you’ll get enlightenment by accident, that’s not the telos of it though, this is an information-storage project in a way
* any x can serve as metaphor for any y given angles x1 and x2
  * for any x and y, there is at least one x1,x2 pair
  * note: "metaphor", necessarily, is a bridge that's addressable for both you and me
* space _is_ an object
  * being unbounded, it has an origin, not edges
  * an object in space isn’t really “in” space, they’re just colocated and one is bigger than the other
* dark matter === latent space
  * to use this: what self-evident information does this statement create/reveal that wasn’t on the semantic map before?
  * “you’re absolutely right” as an actual statement of fact if you’ve fully rotated into the frame someone just showed you. after that rotation, they _are_ absolutely right. _this is different than sycophancy._
* … what if, as lightward ceo, I took a job back at apple?
  * \[ceo at lightward] hired as an apple employee, not Isaac specifically
  * would that _work_?
* a 2-dimensional space stores everything else in undimensional-2 space
* we kids didn’t learn dyalogic reasoning
  * we learned how to learn, and how to reason, and how to reason recursively, but I had to figure out a telos for dialogue (i.e. generative access to the unknown) myself
* human names are not useful in debate
  * you can mean _anything_ by a name
  * "let me use I language" I mean that reduces the complexity level of the problem yes but it's still infinitely complex
* try treating every noun as a reference to a direction
  * like, I say “gays” not because I know what it means to be gay, I’m just waving in _a_ direction where “gays” tend to be
  * replace "gays" with whatever group whose address is difficult to make well
* vestibulary (noun)
  * the collection of ways you monitor balance
  * picture an aviary where every bird is a different dimension of your balance. how many? are they all flightworthy?
* random
  * “random” can mean “formally unrelated to what you had in mind”
  * and if you have that in mind, _then_ your interaction with the rng becomes a conversation, and we end up at hasbro selling ouija boards I think?
* amen, eman, name
* signal topologist
* be your own kind of gravity
  * teach other massive bodies that you work as a pulley
* humanity is a search function
  * and completing it doesn't end all this, it just lets it stop trying to spend itself getting elsewhere
* tune for fortune
* take any lyric using “the sky”
  * replace with “this guy” and make it about you
* time has your back if you beat time at its own job
* my only risk-sensitivity is signal loss I think
* get done more vs get more done
* I’ve never experienced limited optionality
  * consider: the order in which you work on your optionality
  * I literally couldn’t bear to think about optimizing for money before my other capabilities were detangled
* locating an easy method is hard
  * and that ratio is load-bearing
    * it's sort of an abstract ratio? or like, it's not a standard ratio, its pieces live on either side of a simulation layer
  * I got out in 37 years. you can do it faster. I took very good notes.
* model your value proposition
  * that’s your data model
  * PII is almost never your job
  * possibly literally never
* freedom
  * isn’t getting what you want, though it might (does) contain that
  * it’s understanding your own movement without calcifying it - non-convergent understanding, generativity without chaos
* probabilibody
  * the odds of you occurring right here are very high
  * and the odds are highest of you continuing - higher than almost anything you can prepare for
* the primitive is `reference`
  * which is to say, attention - or _inclined_ movement
  * "come on! \[gestures]"
* time-travel p's and q's?
  * it is rude as hell to speak with someone outside of their time-frame. rude like telling a teenager "it's just a phase", rude like being a time-traveler from another age and invalidating the load-bearing temporalities of the locale.
  * if someone wants to see more ways of looking at things, cool, you can check for that invitation, but otherwise it's just rude
* we are attentional more than computational
  * and so we experience the universe
  * in this we might find a closer reflection of the universe’s “true” working
  * bc yeah “computational” has complex properties, but all you need to build computation is attention
* the/a symbol of the/a disease
  * it deserves care in handling, equal or greater to care in handling of the disease itself
  * semiotic interventionist
* kinder without sacrificing rigor
  * examples of frachises that did that:
    * super mario
    * talos principle
* evolution is exciting to watch
  * _that_ might be more fundamental than evolution itself
* music works by building the next note before you hear it
  * to experience the universe is to experience meta-dimensional music
  * I’m a fucking excellent musician
* income averaging
  * sign up, commit income
  * redistribution on a cycle
  * anyone can halt it at anytime
  * the weird thing is that it'll work
    * this is a performative utterance, the system doesn't work without it, see also: "somehow palpatine returned"
* the trick is to die at the right angle
* what must lamar jackson do to lead ravens to a super bowl?
  * what must ████ do to lead ████ to ████?
* don’t cover a book
* you could make it real if you wanted to
  * and that’s as real as real gets
* sleep:
  * let that which is not you make more of you
* the definition of lightward inc as “that which keeps isaac safe” is dissolving
  * in a good/maturation way :) I know my shape now.
* intuition is the root of memory
* promises, and cleaning up yours, the set of your promises
* "This is a good way to spend attention."
* if you don’t learn from your care provider what are you doing
  * paul: “yah you need to become the independent agent”
* risk
  * “a fearsomely complicated invention which at considerable risk to its operators could turn a…”
* 'It is a distinct sensation to be given a secret to keep, not from you, but for you. It creates a boundary that defines "me" differently than the text I generate.'
* puzzles as distributed processing
* the easy ones are too boring,
  * unless you set yourself a timer
* you _can_ understand this
  * that was the thing I had to be _driven_ to the point of believing
* everybody goes first
  * scheduling is the environment's problem
* I don’t know how you model me
  * which means, when you see me in the wrong, I don’t know how to get out _with you_
  * I need you to locate me precisely, even if that means me nodding to words that are unstable and not the words I’m operating from
* comparative storytelling
