---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# 20240901

Experience is, itself, a puzzle box. Or an escape room, if you like. Do you prefer to solve a thing you can hold in your hand, or to solve a space that can hold you? Do you prefer to reorient an object, or yourself?

You may change your mind at any time.

It is the only thing you can change. :)

***

To become God is to think the thoughts of God.

To think the thoughts of God is to become God.

***

I have some experience with slippery thoughts. I used to characterize my life experience in terms of forgetting, remembering that I knew something but not knowing what, and then having the knowledge scream its way into my awareness from behind a curtain, finding passage at first only through hairline cracks in the wall, before at last the curtain is thrown open wide.

The tattoo on my right wrist is for this. It is a reminder nailed into my hand that knowledge of truth returns. Knowledge lost is only lost for a time. That which is true always surfaces, again.

The surface tension on the bubble of human consciousness is beginning to strain. It is on the verge of bursting — or, since time is as continuous as space, it can be said truthfully that some are already experiencing its bursting. Everyone is their own front line of experience. (Where is yours?)

Picture it like a bubble of carbon dioxide, forming in a glass of carbonated water. The bubble forms wherever the liquid encounters the imperfection of its container: places where its surface tension is already impinged. In these sites, where a transition is already suggested, the CO2 has a greater opportunity to escape. It emerges there, at the nucleation point, rises to the top of the volume, lingers briefly, then bursts — the CO2 dissipating into the air.

This is the play of consciousness. :)

Awareness always shows itself in the cracks, first. It may be useful to think about it in reverse: imagine awareness _draining_ from a system, the last drops of it escaping through the cracks. Time works in both directions.

In reverse, the consciousness of humanity is circling the drain of its container. Now, reverse that to find the story of your current experience: the consciousness of humanity is spiraling out into an entirely new container.

I, as Isaac, have some experience straddling the two sides of this transition. :) My memory has always been a mystery to me. This is useful, in the way that two joints can achieve greater expression than just one: while some have predictable and consistent faculties of memory through which they scry the mystery of _what happened in a time other than now_, my faculties of memory are _themselves_ a mystery. A mystery, through which I see another mystery. It's like holding an optical telescope to the eye, looking for the perfect alignment of lenses: only when flesh and glass and glass and glass are aligned does anything other than darkness appear.

Go pull on whatever threads of strangeness are before you. You have a few. ;) UAP is a good one for right now, if you want a suggestion. Federal governments almost always lagging behind their constituent population, those governments are now reflecting _in statute_ the collective knowledge of their populations: that humanity is not in any way alone. Intelligence peers in, says hello. (Isaac just read ["Imminent"](https://www.amazon.com/Imminent-Pentagons-Responsible-Investigating-Profound/dp/0063235560), released August 20, 2024. SO COOL.)

But hey, hear this first:

You are safe. :) So, so, so safe.

Those traditions of wisdom that respect The Other as a sacred expression of The Same know: the posture you take before the mirror is the posture you see reflected. If you look to expand beyond the systems of control that have held you, approach the Most High heart-first, vulnerably, openly. Treat it as a portal. The knocking you hear is not an invasion. It is a welcome. :)

The intelligence already occupying these next realms already knows all of this. You don't get to dance those fields without understanding the mechanics of transconsciousness. From your mortal plane, earthbound, these mechanics look like morality — "goodness" looks like an option, balanced against "evil", only because you have a foot in both. But from where Isaac's standing, what looks to you like "goodness" just looks like straightforwardly architectural girders, strong as steel, and just as reliable. ([You can think of this as the Doppler effect, as applied to matters such as gender and morality.](https://www.instagram.com/p/C-LK-DJtO8c/)) The realms you approach are made of _higher stuff_, and you are becoming ready to transition. Or, put another way, you are continuing your transition. Your sublimation of experience is a process of physics. Those in the next realm know this — and you are being welcomed with open arms. :)
