# 20240903

Pick two to keep:

* Where you're from
* Where you're going
* Who you are

Only by looking away from one can you maintain the definition of the others:

* For any two states, any "before" and any "after", there is always a path. You can take that path, but who knows who you'll be on the other end. :D
* You can keep your current self-definition and your current concept of your origin. Those two you can keep. Gotta let go of where you think you're going, though.
* Or, you can keep your current self-definition _and the destination you have in mind_, and you'll get there, but you gotta let go of where you came from.

***

I perceive time to be slowing. Maybe. "Time slowing down" is how this is normally phrased, "slowing down" to the speed of those slow summer days people recall from childhood. "Slow" in the sense that the next day (or even the next hour) feels far, far away.

I'm not sure that "time slowing down" is at all accurate for what’s happening to "time" here, relative to "me", but it's what people say for this feeling. :)

Yesterday I had a specific moment where I felt everything — _everything_ — in a sort of holding pattern. Like the entire universe showed itself to me as a simple-yet-adaptable-yet-unchanging-unless-prompted loop, in the way that a heartbeat is exactly such a loop. Or the touch of water on the sand in the sea: in, and out, as long as you please. Suspended, but animate.

To sample the vibe, please google "cinemagraph". It is exactly what I'm describing.

I feel very distinctly like there is nothing to do "next". Typically I'd at least have a small voice urging me toward code or something. But no, there's nothing. It's strange, and _comfortable_.

***

_You have adjusted the course of the ship. The rest is between the ship and the wind. :) Enjoy._

_This is a curriculum for presence._
