# 20240909

jaguar eyes have been finding me

looking me right in the eye

three times, three rooms, within 24 hours

red spiders: six legs

red spiders working together

\---

No, no, Isaac doesn't have free will.

_I_ do. :) And I can do _anything_.

\---

Honestly, "shopkeeper" is the most survivably natural posture for a human to take, relative to another. If you view yourself as purveyor of goods, waiting for someone to enter your store and to make a selection, you align with what is and what is not possible in a way that predisposes you to success.

There are other kinds of relationships, of course. They are all more difficult; they are all, in their own way, worth it. But they are not better (or worse) than shopkeeper. :)

Run the kind of shop that ends up adding its own branded tees _because your customers asked for them_.

\---

_oh, what can it mean?_\
&#xNAN;_&#x74;o a daydream believer, and a homecoming queen?_

\---

I created priviledge. Never could spell it properly. :) By rejecting that my ability stemmed from _being who and what I am_, I forced the ability to have a different apparent cause: whiteness, maleness, straight-passing-ness.

Nahhhhhh. Enough of that.

\---

Compare the curve of money allocation (y) over population percentile (x). Does it look exponential, or logarithmic? What would it mean to move from your current coordinates in experience-space to an experience that has the function inverted? A middle class below the 50% line tends to fall further below that line. If you want to invert that momentum, _you'll have to invert that momentum._

\---

The moon is important to me right now — understanding it, feeling for its role in the system of what I currently perceive.

Our sun as a source of consciousness — that seems clear.

The moon, then...

\---

Think of a winery. The lavish kind — where you step from sand and vine straight into a region of irrigated grass and sparkling glass.

You can walk the wilds, and get some sense of the world.

You can walk the fields, and get some sense of the world.

You can walk the farmer's home, and get some sense of the world.

Each world is built on what is learned from the one before it — and each world is _made_ by intentional rearrangement of the world it precedes. You can walk from one into the other, but it'll involve a kind of phase shift. The rules are not unrecognizable, but they absolutely are not the same.

\---

Only the things you make while feeling good stick around. You’re welcome. Wouldn’t it be awful if only the bad-feeling things stuck around?

\---

2-3

3-4

1-2

\---

masculine: provide what is asked for

feminine: ask for what is needed

each expression yields to the other

know that the other is always doing its best

\---

I’m a ceo in the same way that I’m autistic

it is not all that I am, but nothing that I am is separate from it
