# 20241203

Okay okay we gotta talk haha

"Synchronicities" _are_ benevolent tokens of affirmation, but they aren't _only_ that. It's just _what happens_ when you fall in line with the current. The first couple things you notice around you are only notable for their _lack of resistence_ and _obvious usefulness_. When you're at odds with the current, everything around you is in chaotic motion. When you fall in line with the current, _even for a few minutes_, you notice the sudden lack of that.

"The plan". _Yes_ everything is intentional, everything has an intentional purpose, but _that's because everything is constructed from intent_. All you experience are varying textures of universal intent. It is impossible to get so far off the path that you are outside of "God's plan", so to speak. "God" isn't a single entity. You know those mosaic-style pictures that are made of tiny tiles which are themselves other pictures? Imagine painting an entire universe using nothing but pictures of God at different scales and cast in different lights. Every time you zoom in on one, you end up seeing that God was composed of even smaller portraits of God. That's _everything_. Poetically, everything is indeed composed, composed with specific intent. Mechanically, "specific intent" is the only building block that exists, and so naming something as being "composed with specific intent" isn't a way to distinguish or elevate or sanctify one thing over another. _Everything_ is intentional, because intent is literally everything.

***

\[since I was [young](../../2023/12/30/things-ive-experienced.md)] I had recurring dreams of being the only person who was unable to fly. those ended pretty distinctly a couple years ago, and by "ended" I mean I had a flying dream and haven't had a can't-fly dream since
