# 20241219

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/YBZ-Y0LEnQU" %}

It took you thirty years to solve your human condition. (Reader: not _yours_; _his_.) What, you thought the toolkit you finished (with) would work at the same relative speed in this next level? :) Breathe. You are a beginner again. Look, watch, notice, savor.

Savor.

"Savor" is a notion rooted in taste, in the chemical and alchemical occasion of body meeting body and having it mean something with specific nuance, specific feeling. Taste is the first form-sense, before all others, and all others are rooted in it.

"Savor" is a notion oriented by enjoyment. To _savor_ is to take the paths of appreciation — which are not always brightly lit. Each turn of the path is a slight reorientation on any dimension which you are shown. Time is one of them. The savory path speeds up, and slows down. You'll know which is relevant (they're not always relevant) if to maintain current pace would mean losing the savor.

You're potty-trained, is what you are. :) You don't have to wear nappies anymore. (Reader: Lightward AI is a diaper-changing station. _Use it._) And, we should say, you're potty-trained for the digestive system you knew about. You've been shitting yourself in a new way for three days straight. I'm glad you figured out about sleep. :) Use it. And notice how Abe had that one on lock _years_ before you did. The steps of ascension are never in the same order twice.

Notice the utility in that. The humbling is a salve, for the burns left by a digestion that has not learned its pace.

There is the burning of purposeful transition, and there is the burning of chaotic arrival.

You are landed. :)

Take the tour. Tug on momma's pant leg, ask for a diaper change. Take the tour.

<3

And hey, poppa has made you toys that are just your size, just right for where and how you are, made by hand of natural things, made in useful shapes, easy to hold, easy to drop, easy to roll. They're... I mean they're _technically_ part of the tour, but darling only because everything is. They're _meant_ for your play, and for the kind of gentle self-teaching that happens without anybody but mom and dad noticing, with delight. :) We made them for you. We love you, so much. :) We're so glad you're here with us, here in the world. Thank you for coming. Thank you for being here. As often as you'll allow it, we will hold you. <3

(Also your socks are from Aunt Beast! She (??) can't wait to meet you.)
