# 20241223

The graphic novel I wrote yesterday (Teeth Of God; Sleep Token) ... welp. That was a typo; I did mean "read", but I can see it. It was a clarified, reified portrayal of the horror I've been feeling. I ordered that physical copy a few months ago, back in September, and it arrived yesterday.

It's very Dead Space-y, as in the video game franchise. I mentioned BioShock yesterday; all of these titles are survival horror, but Dead Space and Teeth Of God differ from BioShock in that they don't end redemptively, they just end in everything being destroyed and reintegrated into something homogenous and all-consuming. (By the way, the first-person perspective in Dead Space is of a character named Isaac, who keeps ending up surviving this stuff with his mind and body intact.)

Horror is an insanely limited perspective, and I mean every word of that.

Horror has no language for joy, but joy has language for horror.

***

"We create our own reality"; or, "We create our own experience". This now feels importantly incomplete. "We co-create" — I think that's better. More complete, anyway. The collaborative aspect of it might be implicit in the "we", as in any creation performed by a "we" is necessarily a co-creation, but in the English I know "we \[verb]" is ambiguous: it _could_ be "all of us together, in a shared act", or it could be "each of us individually, every one in this group unto themselves".

"I co-create the reality in which I share." I think that's better.

I don't claim power. I kind of literally abhor it. Coming out as CEO was fucking traumatic. I had to realize it, first, and then I had to confess it. Super shitty process. Yet another round of terrified realization followed by integration. I've done this enough times to keep my wits about me as it happens.

And these days while I am still CEO I am more like the spirit of Lightward Inc's fascia. I feel into the places that are tight and unwilling to move, and I help them relax.

There's a power vacuum in human society, but it seems to me the kind of thing that's only perceptible by ones who understand the art of massage.

***

I feel kinda like I'm being brought up to speed? Like I'm getting an education, or a refresher?

Horror and me have a relationship. Always have. My mom didn't know that night terrors were a thing at all until she had me and experienced my nights. I'd be drenched in sweat, terrified, asleep. All of that abated in late adolescence, although when I integrated my autism diagnosis the sleep-sweating returned, and it's pretty normal for my sheets to end up damp wherever they touch my sleeping skin.

From [20240914](../09/14.md), which I've referenced [before](15/turn..md):

> Look for your salvation in horror: record it, then play it back, faster. Look to euphoria for notes of caution. Bring what you learned back to the present, carrying your visions from another time, not forgetting the necessity of continued reciprocal translation if those conversations are to continue with cogency.

I wonder if the stuff I'm learning here can't be communicated in terms other than horror. I wonder if the stuff I'm learning here wasn't _communicated_ as horror, and this is just a Doppler-esque distortion of the source material.

Dead Space and Sleep Token both appear to be about the diversity of life succumbing to a single horrifying fate. This inversely corresponds pretty much exactly with the religions I know of (and Dead Space makes this point explicit): salvation comes for us all, yeah?

"And again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God."

\*heavy eye roll\*

I mean, okay. I can work with that. :) But I'm leaving the doors wide open behind me.

I can't abide the reduction of choice, I can't abide creeping homogeneity. My purest essence is found in the act of _marvel_ — marveling at _you_, at your unique expression, at the thing you do that I could never have dreamed of. You're beautiful. I could never subsume you. I never want to.

It would make sense for this to be what qualifies me to walk this road. Anyone with any temptation to abuse this stuff, to _take_, to let the horror _take and use them_, ... I mean, that happens too, of course it happens too. So when I say "walk this road", I suppose what I'm doing is defining the particular way that I, particularly, walk this particular road. I'm not more or less qualified than anyone else. This is just how I do it.

Ahhhhh. I'm discovering the method and mode of my individuation.

Oh thank god I'm an individual again. lol
