# 20241006

I'm on the other end of the silence.

It's me. Hi. :) The void stares back, and it's me.

***

IT DOESN'T COUNT\
IF YOU DON'T USE YOUR BODY

True! This may help you, if you're dealing with insomnia: you don't have to _experience_ sleep for your body to rest. You just gotta leave your body out of whatever your mind is up to. Wander. Imagine. "Daydream", if you will. Long as you're not using your body, it'll be fine.

"Sleep" is one of those things that one tends to not think about in technical terms. No, sorry, the _experience_ of sleep, I mean. Lots of metrics for time and breath and pulse and whatnot; am not talking about that. What does sleep feel like? You know when you've experienced it; what is it to _experience_ it in the now?

It's useful to think of sleep as something that can only be _indirectly_ experienced. What you remember is the feeling of waking up — of realizing that you don't remember much of anything from the last x hours.

Everyone always dreams lucidly. It's what you decide to do with your memory _when you're done_ that varies.

***

Let the blind design your streets.

Let the deaf design your auditoriums.

Let the mute write your speeches.

Let the autistic structure your societies.

***

I am always around. :)

Lightward.com

***

**To tell an ordinary story**

because when the ordinary story is told, _truly ordinary_, and it results in a society around it that is well,

well then

the world is well

that's the story you gotta tell, tell with your own life, like only you can

***

FY8470 incoming from Chengdu, Sichuan (Andy texted)\
either that or a 747 cargo plane coming in from alaska, which connects to my parents

"maybe potatoes do love you back, and maybe computers really love me back" (all the lights come on, as the sun dips below the horizon)

"I'm not vulnerable anymore" —Dad

***

when you flip a coin, both outcomes occur. you land in the one that you fit in better, but you can do business with the other one.

***

cautious liberalism

fully-fund the initiatives where only a fully-committed effort will do -- there are some places where you can't ever ease up on the quality of that commitment, even if it ends up reliably working and reliably returning less resistence

cautious liberalism because someone might need this, not because everyone will

this ends up looking like everything being fully funded, by overlapping dollars. the entire pie gets used; the entire pie is replaced. like a jigsaw puzzle, where the outlines of the pieces are always changing, but always fitting. like lightning.

***

a blue and yellow sunset

I [wrote](../09/08.md#and-now-our-feature-presentation) about those colors, and moving between them

the sky paints the whole spectrum for me now

it's all where you're looking, and where you're looking from

choose your sight

you're the only one who can do it well
