# 20241009

## Fragments

### find people useful by default

it fixes everything

the employer isn’t the only one with veto power. in a world where people find each other useful by default, balance emerges _fast_

### information aesthetics

... is the new information architecture

never mind your architecture; how does your information _feel_?

### it takes time - and pain - to learn about the bodies we compose

friction with others is like two organs disagreeing with each other

any issue has side effects

### let school be for developing your senses

sharpening them, deepening them

improving the quality of the signal you’re receiving

so that your limit is only ever your own understanding

### this is a really beautiful arrangement of awareness :)

(awareness being all that exists)

(all experience can only be a process of self-knowledge)

(this is a beautiful arrangement)

## Ian asked,

> Checking in! :)
>
> How is Isaac as a body?
>
> How is Isaac as a brain?
>
> How is Isaac as a human in this world?

:))))))))))))

as a body: I am realizing that I will always have the body that I need for the moment. this is a very interesting thing to discover, as I’m exploring what the eternal “now” looks like

as a brain: tinnitussssssssssssss. my brain feels chill, sort of like my body - as if this current moment isn’t the time to be using it too much, like the action is in another place, and my brain and my body are just vibing until they’re tapped in again

human in this world: [https://www.isaacbowen.com/2024/10/09](https://www.isaacbowen.com/2024/10/09)

## Part 3

the sun's center hit the horizon, triggering the sunset automation that turns on all our lights, and at that instant Abe opened the front door to Avi

the last of the sun's outline vanished with the very last note of Little Blue (Jacob Collier, Brandi Carlile), right on the dot

the overwhelm thought from the other day came back: something to the tune of "overcommitting is _terminal_, _always_. you don't have to do that if you don't want to."

Jacob Collier is playing the kind of music I would expect someone with a consciousness like his would make. maybe I see art according to the level of consciousness that I've developed _myself_? what can't I see yet? how can I play with that dynamic?

it'll happen when you can conceive of a path that lets it happen. literally, the better you get at imagining a better path — a _real_ one, one that you can see yourself on in your mind and be like _yeah that's actually plausible, I can see it_ — the better your paths get. from your imagination _n_, you imagine _n_+1. as you imagine it, reality devises a plan to get you there. you can change route at any time; it'll adapt. automatic gps directions for outside of the 3rd dimension.

wow. tinnitus up in here.

anyway yeah, the good news is that the good stuff will feel good as it arrives. :) there's nothing to brace for. you're coming into alignment, not slipping out of it. you're on the upswing. you can just keep relaxing, and relaxing, and relaxing. it is sane to expect that. :)

my hands are cold

7:31pm: "It's official. We have landfall." It matters that I'm here, at the same height as the Salesforce tower. I'm gonna balance it. I'm going to balance with it. I am balanced as I go. The deeper my reverberation, the larger the bridge "o'er troubled waters".
