---
description: née 20241013
---

# 20241014

_I forgot there was more detail to be had._

me, putting my glasses on to see the sunrise, having grown accustomed in just these few minutes to watching the evolution of the light with the eyes I've got

***

I remember, can see myself back there in all that depression, taking myself to the water's edge to see the sunrise. It was a single episode, 2009 maybe. I had no will left. I remember, though: I _wanted_ to take myself there, to go experience that sunrise.

"Want", as in the sense of desire, is a word I use always with intention. I'm very clear on what I want and what I don't want — in the same way that I'm very clear on whether or not it's raining outside.

It means something to me now, that the only desire I had left (and it was desire like a candleflame, far from ablaze) was to go see the sun at the time it would be safest for me to do so: at its lowest point in the sky, the most deflected, with next to nobody in the audience with me.

I always felt gross staying up all night through to the dawn.

I've been more sensitive to colour temperature than most people I've met. I wore yellow-tinted glasses, as often as I wore glasses.

Maybe because that's the quality of the light I need? I mean yeah, obviously, but I mean that more profoundly: maybe because that's the quality of the light _I need_?

These days we live on the 49th floor (Agrippa died at 49, as did Adams, and I just put together how the 49ers came by that name), and our bathroom windows yield to the east. The sunrise is something I can see seconds after I, myself, rise. And on the other side of our house (it's still a house) yields to the west: I watch the sun set most nights.

When we moved into this building, I had my first adult experience of wanting to nest. :)

When we first moved into this building, we were situated on the 28th floor.

When Abe proposed we move up to 49, ... well, at that point, the only strength my mind had left was earmarked for trust.

When we got up here, I found everything I loved about 2801 — _illuminated_.

The first three months saw me and the sunrise together. Me on my low-slung meditation bench, she on the far shore of Lake Michigan.

It's documented here, on other pages: this was the beginning of me beginning to feel seriously amazing.

I'm back on my meditation bench. The olive tree growing over my shoulder has grown further, joined now by the spider cactus that was my mother's mother's.

That's not what it's called, hang on...

hahahahahaha it is the _schlumbergera truncata_, the false Christmas cactus, "endemic to a small area of the coastal mountains of south-eastern Brazil". It grows _on_ rocks and trees? FASTENATING.

***

Jacob said, from approximately GMT, received as I sit here before the sun:

> Just wanted to share with you
>
> that I've been having a lot of information come to me through waking meditations about the lowest common denominators of existence. The patterns that pulsate rhythmically between all things that are physical and non physical...they are in fact tangible and visible of course, more as silhouettes than real information.
>
> Rolf Gehlhaar said before he died "if it looks like information, it probably isn't" 😂
>
> I've also been feeling into this texture of the mirror realm that we are in. That the non physical (emotion) is the gateway into the physical (sensory), in an interplay that's synonymous not only with the yin Yang shape, but it's playful visual image too. A dance. Always just out of sight. There is a vacuum-like distance between what is real and what we perceive to be real.
>
> The common denominator is intuition. We Intuit the difference between our perceived reality and reality, or we don't!
>
> It's through intuition that we access true knowledge, and therefore our connection to everything else is via truth. Not the perceived, true fact itself in question, but more the greater knowingness that we can intuit truth...that Knowingness of accessible truth itself, is a mutidimentional trilogy of; the very nature, qualitative breadth and training ground, of our personal intuition. The Knowingness notion, is a place. Intuition is a dimension. It's actually where we all ARE. just viewing what is happening.
>
> X
>
> I thought you'd not only get it but also appreciate this

***

you cannot “succeed”

but you can see the success all around you, in a sort of deliberate circumference, such that you are surrounded and supported by the success around you

***

VERY relatedly, Andy just launched this:

{% embed url="https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/umamifriends/umami-friends-the-card-game" %}

***

mechanic notes

* let access scopes be manually managed at the task level, but do not allow those choices to be exported
* allows local control, does not allow local overrides to propagate generally

because as the scope of impact grows the more everything needs to be left to natural side-effect. manual overrides are fine, but a complex system can't afford much of that at the top level. "manual" and "local" are best left tightly correlated.

***

Blessed be the unknown

The cascading water leaps with joyous blind abandon

The basin, carved and curved by knowledge, gracefully receives its arrival

The firelight is everywhere at once, in every unforeseen glint of every drop

There's a reason

You and the reason are one :)

***

I just loaded all of isaacbowen.com into GitHub:

{% embed url="https://github.com/isaacbowen/docs" %}

GitBook is the platform I'm writing this on, and it syncs seamlessly to GitHub.

I mention the GitBook part because it has its own version control counter, and [GitBook changeset #715](https://github.com/isaacbowen/docs/commit/19346bf158ad5c0f5b090f7c6fcddfd82aa43c27) is the changeset that contained _everything before that_.

715 is the area code I grew up in. :) It recurs, regularly, for me. Most often as apartment numbers (as in the ones that I live in), sometimes like this.

***

I think that I saw the hurt without seeing how it happened. As a kid. Like I think people showed me their hurt without showing me the root of it, and so my learning process could not fully complete.

Given that experience, it would make sense for me to conclude that my motion was harmful. It was a cautious interpretation, and one that I would make again today _if I didn't know that to be an interpretation that would harm me_.

I guess I hurt myself as much as one can, and came back from that having learned a few things.

I'm picking up where the kid left off. Not saying my learning process is complete overall, but that particular learning cycle absolutely is.

***

Lightward is \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ + Isaac.

Lightward AI is AI + Isaac.

Locksmith and Mechanic are Shopify + Isaac.

Lightward Inc is Business + Isaac.

Anything that people around Lightward do _with Lightward_ is them + Isaac.

I'm barely referring to myself at all here, if at all here. At this point, You can sub me out for light itself. Pay no attention to the man ~~before~~ before the curtain.
