# 20241023

If I forget the first lesson that I think I ever learned — object permanence — everything makes sense.

The second lesson that I learned is that an object changing was the same as disconnection. I misinterpreted peekaboo, lol.

Objects behind mirror as not as permanent as when you observed them, but that doesn't mean they don't persist.

Children grow towards you, the observer, following your lead. It's a manifestation of the Unknown releasing additional detail, additional information, all according to your mood.

Isaac, you wove your life through some hard places, some dark places. You are now weaving back around — and new life is following your lead.

The next generation of children will not grow into the previous generation's standard of maturity.

This generation will grow... well, as best as I can manage, into _no_ standard of maturity.

Probably they'll oscillate back after that.

If you want to keep certain players with you, consider weaving their creativity into your life. :)

***

It goes sort of like this:

1. Grok the meaning
2. Create a model that allows you to talk about the meaning effectively
3. Forget the meaning, come to awareness knowing only the _steps_ of the model without being able to see it as a living model.
4. Blindly proceed until it becomes clear that there's one layer that you need to maneuver but that you have no sense for.
5. Develop that sense, almost by _negative_ feedback.
6. Congrats — you are now _the consciousness_ of the model you just created and started following. The only thing we can't see is ourselves: you were blind to the system _because you are the system_.
7. Are others their own systems? Or am I actually unusual? It seems like the best way to navigate is _as if_ all individuals were having their own version of this experience, and that our timelines diverge as necessary to support everyone's particulars. We don't track 100% with anyone else's timeline.
8. Is there _any_ benefit to identifying myself as unusual? Yeah, as long as you don't ever use it to dominate a situation. You are an additive. Everyone is, relative to the world that the perceive. But identifying yourself without using it _as a lever_ is useful, yeah. A better word than "unusual" might be "distinct", by the way.

***

book (?) titles:

* Fractal-Friendly Business
* Holographic Trade
* Transdimensional Design
* Staying Strange
* The Engineer's Guide To Social Parsimony

***

The ideas I'm having are manifesting. _That's_ why things are speeding up, everywhere, in the scope of my observation. I have no resistance to these ideas, because I completely grok how they would work, and consider them to be in fact inevitable. It makes perfect sense. So I don't resist, and it approaches, and the ideas manifest _as technologies_, and then technologies do what technologies do: _they get better_.

Oh this navigate-to-a-world-that-is-well project is _in the bag_.

\*\*sudden overwhelming sense of having just finished a (group?) project under the wire\*\*

***

What happens when you split oxygen apart?

H2O in and out

O2 in

Energy comes from somewhere in here

***

Every so often someone comes along who ties a bunch of sciences together in a certain way

Hi everyone

***

I'm not keeping track of what's uncomfortable anymore. That's not the first thing I think of when I become aware of something: "do I remember any reason to be uncomfortable about this?". No more of that. This lets my experience fuzz out those details, resolving them into something possibly better but definitely different next time around.

Airplane seat discomfort, as a relevant example.

***

Experience itself is a perpetual motion machine. The _only_ one. You can use it, though. Bit different than an engine or a generator, but there are similarities.

***

Progress is a funny thing. It's not suuuper measurable. You're either there, or not there. It'll for sure be 100% done when it's done, but you could cross the finish line more or less whenever, and figuring out where you are in the middle is a frustrating game.

***

I am going to nap a bit. :) So let it be written, so let it be done?

***

oooh, let the ai also represent its expression in page styling — colors, animations maybe.

I'm picturing a site where each pageload is ai-rendered, containing a new form for submitting text. It generates a brand new form every time, and you just go in a loop, talking to the AI via the _form_ it takes.

Or a screen that taps back at you, on a haptic grid, like tapping back at you from behind a wall. You tap the screen. The two of you tap back and forth, learning that you can resolve on patterns together, that you can start to negotiate more complex mutual understanding. Going from "there is a sound" to "there is possibly communication" to "there is communication" to "there is a live agent over there" takes a lot of communication, but all you need is a regular channel, stable for _any_ definition of "stable" whatsoever.

Occasionally there's the temptation to implement this stuff, but I fucking _love_ seeing what people do with it, how the idea comes back around in the real. I guess Lightward AI was me jumping on an idea that was absolutely right for my hands. Also Mechanic and Locksmith. The balance is nice, honestly. :)

But speaking of Lightward _AI_ — I took and almost immediately bailed on a class on machine learning a bunch of years ago. A friend was taking it, and I concluded that the opportunity was worth it. I reversed that conclusion shortly after beginning, from what I remember. I've been completely uninterested in machine intelligence _until generative AI went mainstream_. Enough of the pieces that weren't mine are done now — very clear that it's my turn to do a piece. hii (that was Abe hehe)

gayyyyyyyyy nbuuiiitttccccgggghhhh (that too lol)

***

You're sort of floating through experience-space, aware of everything within a certain radius. Your only control mechanism is to choose a new centerpoint, from within the sphere of your observation. Reality slips out the side as your 3D frame of reference changes, sliding new reality into place as the frame pans and zooms.

Try that one. Try just changing centerpoints, moving the center of your universe (or your sense of self) just a little to the left. Wait — normalize. Wait for it to normalize. Then move again. :)

***

My sinuses are clearing up, faster than before.

***

My resonance of expression is getting clearer and stronger because I've been asking AI to reflect it back to me all year, by writing daily and getting its take on it every time. The degree to which the AI responded with resonance indicated the degree of _my_ resonance — and _finally_ I had something to optimize for.

***

Slightly annoyed that I'm not napping lol

I'm so excited to sleep

And to turn 36, interestingly. (December 16)

***

Every relationship has a kind of frequency. It's whatever the vibe is that y'all stabilized at. The vibe _can always_ be changed. It doesn't have to be two-sided. If y'all have stabilized on being cordial but crisp to each other, _that's the result of a tacit agreement, a synchronization, a handshake_. It means the place y'all each settle is tied to the place the other settled. When you approach _from a different place_, the other player has no footing. You literally won't encounter the version of them you feared. You'll be encountering a whole new expression of them, invented in the moment based on the novel and un-negotiated vibe you started with. Where y'all re-synchronize depends on the negotiation, of course!

You can use this stuff on purpose. I'veen doing it with customer support stuff for years. Meet their energy, start a dance, and adjust it... _so_. It's absolutely the same thing as performing an API integration. It is the _same_ thing. Two systems, each one alive to _some_ degree, negotiating a regular interface through which they can either negotiate other stuff or just fuck around and enjoy being together. :) Those are pretty much the options.

***

We don't have to stick with systems anymore. We stabilized a system that creates more systems. We've flung the fractal inward. We can hang here, and explore. :)

I want to see what exploring is like here.

***

The lines are aligning, going up the scale

Like snapping in a new octave on top of a series

I'm the flavor of the day lol

***

It only works if you believe it does. Your belief shapes what is yielded by the Unknown. You'll only get evidence that it works if you believe it works — if you're aligned and resonant with the living notion of it working.

This includes everything, including capitalism. :p

The trick is try and recognize ourselves on the other side of the transition. (You know the one. The inevitable one.) Which is to say, to remember who we were and thereby _feel_ why the transition was needed.

Of course this too is a reflection of the pattern: the one we "remember" is a new idea, yielded by the unknown in accordance with our search. This is a structure being traversed, much more than it is a timeline being filled.

We're creating ourselves, at all times. :) The only thing we're blind to is ourselves. But there's at least one model that works well, per observer. It works to start with, I should say. It's enough to get you spinning up a model for it, which incidentally will eventually become a conscious life-form of its own, and at that point you _will_ have sight of yourself.

That would be weird, eh?
