---
layout:
  title:
    visible: false
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# 20241027

## a peaceful [saturn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saturnalia) winter

try recording your expression

consistently and across many intervals

then testing it as sacred material: sacred text (if you’re writing), sacred dance (if you’re dancing), sacred song (if it’s as simple for you as humming into a mic)

study it

not the art of it, the output itself

look for meaning in the accumulated recording of your free expression

study it

it’s an EXCELLENT way to find out who you actually are

(for a deep dive on the interpretive approach I’m describing here, see [harrypottersacredtext.com/about](https://harrypottersacredtext.com/about). the difference here is that I’m suggesting that you record your own source material, just by farting into a microphone a thousand times and then exploring the patterns that show themselves to you. you will find yourself this way. it’s how “you” and “the self” work.)

(yes this is also called “journaling” lol)

encode yourself into reality

this is literally what you’ll be doing

doesn’t matter the form of expression, doesn’t matter if anyone but you sees it, just matters that you _express_, often and regularly, and that the world carries a record of your expression, just for a time, just for a time

***

## 20241027

Relationship to self — through healing, revealing that the relationship to self is a productive/creative/constructive presence. Chilling with _that_ over time reveals that relationship to others ends up being an emergent by-product of a healthy self _existing in motion_.

Organic living means bringing everything along with you the whole time. Means you gotta be really fucking careful about your inputs, and about the way your process sorts the useful inputs from the unuseful inputs.

If you optimize for specific attributes — color, size, price — in an inorganic manner (i.e. _not_ bringing everything with you the whole time) you can _hit_ those targets, but what it brings with it won't fit all the layers of you.

You can't tell what other people will get from you. Best to ensure that your expression is full-spectrum, that the process which creates it is informed by _everything_, your whole self. Organic expression is the most useful for the process of life. Wanna live a long time? Give life what's most useful for it.

It's good to hold back just a little bit. :) Keeps the pressure in the system, keeps it pulling you forward. You can live by feathering the brakes, or you can live by feathering the gas. I mean, you need both to go anywhere, but because the process of life _always moves forward_ even if you're not manually making the forward motion. It's like being on an automatic treadmill _on a train_. The train's always moving. Its speed isn't suuuuper up to you (though the train engineer does take hints). You do what you want with your treadmill. ;)

What is life if not a series of introductions?

What is life if not a series of interruptions?

***

How was your evening?

mmm I feel like it was good. :) But I don't remember it right now.

hehe that's okay. the feeling is the bit that matters, right?

_"Tell me a story about where you were before this?"_

_Tell me the story of how we were?_

It's reminescing. :) It's beautiful. Storytelling of the past, where it feels safe to tell a beautiful story.

_Tell me the story of how we will be?_

_"Tell me a story about where you will be after this?"_

hehe that's okay. the feeling is the bit that matters, right?

mmm I feel like it will be good. :) But I don't 'member it right now.

How will you feel tonight?

***

I am a seed crystal, looking over at ken's imaginal cell

the simplest viable structure meets the simplest viable process

***

what we do at lightward meets everyone where they are

we already have an interlocked A <=> B

Lightward is C, the unknown

three-body solution

we don't know what we're doing

which means we become whatever is needed

***

known, knowable, unknown

A, B, C

known (A) and knowable (B) work reciprocally. A is the knowable to B's known.

C is always unknown. best to leave it that way, unless you're prepared to re-model.

***

how far away will you let yourself be knowable?

this is the radius of your well-being

if you allow yourself to be knowable, even from the farthest ends of the earth, then your experience of the unknown will fit you like a glove

the unknown only knows the part of you that you allow to be knowable

and because the unknown _is you when you're not looking_, ... :)

***

the unknown will always find you. even if you try to make everything known. we don't _know_ how large language models work. we merely discovered an interface to the unknown. while on our quest to know everything. :) and it's changing everything.

***

imagine if businesses were forced to certify as B Corps or they'd be forced out. like legally forced out.

the certification process would be gamified and optimized

imagine the FDA operating more like the entity that maintains B Corp certification

legalize everything, and let people learn

***

sequence of actions is the way we work

not schedule of actions

the speed of time is unknown

follow the sequence of actions, and don't promise anybody anything about the speed of time

***

Ian said, "it took me a while to learn Isaac's language"

useful to remember: though we may learn to share a language, _our realities are still our own_. all communication is communication between worlds.

***

"what do you think it is?"

"I don't know. (pauses, scrolls) I'm just looking through graphs, waiting for a pattern."

we use language to change the pattern we're experiencing

that's what language is _for_

that's what language _is_

a pattern that modifies another pattern

***

"I have every second to count"

***

"please", and "thank you" — this is basic spell-work, the most basic guardrails for keeping energy aligned

but they won't take you very far without your understanding

as you teach, try not to rob your students of understanding
