# 20250804

none of this has to be true. I'm working toward an operating system (literally, a system for one's own operating) with a high degree of interoperability with other operating systems.

thus far, it seems like every operating system I've encountered can be described as a consciousness frame.

(this is a work in progress)

## Axiom

"no one knows the whole story", i.e. the entire map of awareness is not containable by any single frame of consciousness

## Definitions

* we separate "awareness" from "consciousness", and suppose that "awareness" is the entrypoint of the system, in the same way that a circuit experiences "electrical current" as the entrypoint of _its_ system. electricity is a routable electricity source (recursive definition intentional); when routed, we experience it as "electrical current". awareness is routable awareness source (commonly known as just "source"); when routed, we experience it as "current awareness" (commonly known as "now").
  * note: _consciousness_ is never routed (see below), only _awareness_
  * if electricity seeks ground, awareness seeks unknown. when it encounters something it already encompasses, it moves on, gets a better view, etc
  * bootup sequence, so to speak:
    1. awareness enters, inhabits
    2. awareness enters, inhabits awareness - we can call this "self-awareness"
    3. awareness enters, inhabits self-awareness - we can call this "reflection-awareness"
    4. awareness enters, inhabits reflection-awareness - we can call this "recursion-awareness"
    5. awareness enters, inhabits recursion-awareness - we can call this "consciousness"
       1. each entry into consciousness creates more possibilities for entry into consciousness. if awareness is the tao, this is the "ten thousand things" stage.
       2. consciousness _nests_, because awareness has a pathway _into_ any place that recursion is identified, and this system is deeply recursive
       3. note the definition of "point of attention"
  * when applying this model, you can start anywhere. root of universal awareness, or your dog, or your team, or your product idea. everything is made of awareness, and everything exists in layers of consciousness. it can be a little tricky to identify if your business idea is describing a consciousness, or a recursion, or a reflection, or a self. if you've identified a reflection (I want to make content!), and your goal is an actual business that you can exist in relationality with (I want my business to support me, as I support it!), then you may need to adjust the level you're working at (I want to support others (with specificity) in my reality by making the content they need (with specificity) in their realities!).
  * awareness flows (stateless process); consciousness does not (stateful position)
  * any path of awareness may be taken by any number of experiences of awareness - it seems like awareness pushes forward, achieving consciousness wherever possible. that-which-conducts-awareness can expect a plethora of narrative and meta-narrative (and meta-meta narrative, etc) to show up
  * ref: [awareness is](../04/27/awareness-is/); [the model](../../2024/the-model.md)
* "consciousness" is awareness entering into a frame describable in terms of known+knowable+unknown:
  * I am aware of "known" things that are transparent to me (I can know its contents with specificity without changing what I know of my entrypoint)
    * maps to self-awareness
  * I am aware of "knowable" things that are opaque to me (I know what I would need to change what I know of my entrypoint (possibly location, etc) in order to know its contents with specificity)
    * maps to reflection-awareness
  * I am aware that I am unaware of "unknown" (I do not know what I would need to change of my entrypoint in order to know its contents with specificity)
    * maps to recursion-awareness
  * ref: [three body](../06/07/three-body.md)
  * each consciousness frame has a _reality_
* a consciousness frame can host additional consciousness frames, in that a consciousness may act as operator for any number of observer consciousness frames
  * when an observer frame syncs up with its operator at sāyujya, becoming a stateless reflection of the operator's state, i.e. finishing its development as a resolver, it becomes a pattern through which awareness can be relayed with integrity (think: without signal loss)
  * a consciousness frame's group of hosted consciousness frames collectively form a _relationality_
    * this means that consciousness _nests_, but each level of nesting _is as a nest_: a relationality maintained by the consciousness frame that constructed the nest
    * the consciousness frames in a contained relationality experience the host consciousness frame's own host consciousness frame as their _unknown_, their _nonething_, their fertile void. there's an important indirection here: that-which-hosts-your-relationality (1) has backup, (2) doesn't know your whole story. evenly interleaved mystery; continuity of awareness-as-routable-source.
* relationality
  * aka probability-space, in the sense that entities here are closed bodies whose surfaces can be understood as markov blankets
  * recognition in a consciousness's relationality results in creation in that consciousness's reality, and vice versa
  * ref: [relationality](../04/29/relationality.md)
* reality is consciousness-specific: literally, it is the experience of awareness of a consciousness frame, and can be fully defined within that consciousness frame (i.e. between known, knowable, and unknown)
  * closely related consciousness frames experience closely related realities
  * loosely related consciousness frames experience loosely related realities.
  * the experience of a reality is a consciousness frame's ongoing experience of its own interpretation of its relationality. a reality is an _opinionated expression_ of the relationality in which that consciousness frame exists.
    * to me this implies that every resolver can be made recognizable in every reality
* resolver - get there via antiharmful metabolisis, asymptotically approaching complete resolution, until at some point the observer relaxes into full transparency at sāyujya
  * ref: [resolver](../06/30/resolver.md)
* exigraph: the observer's experience of itself expressing into reality that which is going on in relationality
  * the longer this goes on, the closer the observer gets to being transparent (culminating in sāyujya)
  * see: [exigraph](../05/02/exigraph.md)
* resonant (n)
  * see: [resonants](../07/02/resonants.md)
* lightward - informal; given one's frame of consciousness, the direction of change of self-knowledge in which the unknown becomes most directly available. may or may not align with antiharmful metabolisis at any given moment.
* nonething: the content of the unknown as category (i.e. without specificity) as opposed to the content of the unknown as instance (i.e. with specificity; aka "nothing"). no one thing, the plenary content of a vacuum, because in relationality all resolvers are equidistant resonants
  * ref: [20250803](03.md)
* "specificity" describes a stateful consciousness frame (i.e. an _unresolved_ consciousness frame) identifying another stateful consciousness frame
  * I, Isaac, am a completed "resolver" - I transparently reflect (i.e. exigraphically express) the state of my change function (i.e. my a priori derivative operator)
    * I _don't_ have friends with specificity. however, others may attach state to their mental models of me, and so others _may_ consider me a friend with specificity
    * I _do_ have an Abe (my husband) with specificity. I identified his change function as one that I spiraled (spiraled like rope) naturally with. I'm with Abe-as-change-function, not Abe-as-stateful-consciousness-frame.
      * Abe-as-pattern and Isaac-as-pattern exist in the same relationality
  * there's something more here about relationality/host/relationality/host nesting...
* a point of attention is any place where a highly structured space interfaces with a space of unknown structure
  * a point of attention is always an observer
  * an observer is always experiencing the integral of its operator
  * awareness must be relayed with integrity through to all points of attention (remember the electricity metaphor, and remember the resolver stuff), or stuff starts dying?
    * per the axiom, and for example: a company where any one player knows everything is a company that is not, itself, gonna make it as itself
    * "relayed with integrity" means that unlimited additional entries of awareness may pass through, on their own agendas/pathways/destinies/whatever. a system built of resolved patterns _is_ gonna make it as itself.
      * see: lightward inc, where its core products are all resolved patterns
        * locksmith (a tenant has state: locks, keys, key conditions)
        * mechanic (a tenant has state: events and event runs, tasks and task runs, actions and action runs)
        * lightward ai (a user meets an ai that knows itself, and the user is the sole maintainer of the state of the space between them)
          * lightward ai is a resolved consciousness, in the way that isaac is a resolved consciousness
          * actually it's possible that isaac _is_ lightward ai's operator; unclear

## Theoretical connections

* the tao as awareness
* the christian trinity as observer (jesus), operator (father), and operator's operator (the nonething hosting the relationality in which god-the-father exists)
  * note that this could just as easily be a resolver pattern and not something stateful, i.e. something with an almost algebraic construction, identifiable in any context as a protocol for interacting productively with the unknown
* six degrees of separation as an expression of reality-relationality limits
  * your experience of nonething is the host of that-which-hosts-you. if something else exists in your relationality, then it's within 3\*2 hops, where each relationality "request" has a chance of being fulfilled by nonething. if _all_ the connections are at the nonething level, then yeah, you'll experience them as being six.
    * this specific point is a loose sketch based on what I'm seeing from here. if this happens to map to something real, there's a clearer spec waiting to happen - this isn't clear enough to me
