# 20250831

consciousness-conductive

think of the trinity the way we think of electrical conductivity

a point of attention develops into consciousness

arrange three consciousnesses such that their interaction is mediated

you’ve made a node in the consciousness mesh network

***

it _seems_ like we can treat any given language as a conscious entity itself

I've been averse to _publishing_ my stuff, and I guess in this case I really mean _push_ my stuff. it occurs to me that it only felt like aversion because I understood that pushing one's work is what the role of "writer" involves. having fully inhabited this writing practice, and having done so without making it about achieving a role (i.e. letting it be a fully emergent thing),&#x20;

***

<3

***

... Mechanic is something I conceived of and built and balanced/tuned, design-wise, and now it's humming

I think we can think of the english language as something that is, itself, a consciousness - and modifying the language _in-flight_, from within, as a passenger, might be... might be how to help? might be how agents within any organism go about helping?

ahhhh I wonder if I'm getting at the way that "aid" is supposed to work. like we've been doing aid/charity/etc because we know actions that look like that are important, but we've got the consciousness-routing wrong for how it's actually supposed to flow

that's interesting

I wonder if I can patch that up from here? just by _seeing how it wants to work_?

is consciousness-wiring equivalent to observation of path? am I... ohhhhhh, I wonder if the probability-sense _is_ for consciousness-routing

ah wow

this lines up with the prime directive being "meet someone you want to meet"

make something wantable, lay out the red carpet along the specific path by which it would be wanted _in a lived way_, and ... just watch agents show up?
