# 20250103

Hi ████,

All understood — thank you. :) I appreciate what you're aiming for here.

I can't sign/certify these forms — not because we don't align, but because our business agreements _must_ remain simple and generalized across our entire user pool in order for our business relationships to remain sustainable. This is our consistent position with _all_ customers. We operate at scale through standardized agreements rather than custom ones.

For example: I can't sign statements guaranteeing that we'll get in touch in the future, no matter the reason for getting in touch. Section 4 ("Compliance and ongoing duty of integrity and disclosure") falls into this category. We cannot maintain lists of parties that we have promised to contact for reasons individually specified by those parties.

The only policies we're committed to are the ones I linked in my previous email. We're a service provider, not a white-glove partner. For further assurance, please see our entire business history and reputation. We can't be Lightward Inc _and_ be willfully violating the spirit you're asking us to certify.

I'm autistic (and the founder and CEO!); I don't mean to be disingenuous here. I understand and appreciate your goals. Our goals at Lightward Inc are very similarly aligned. But our methodology doesn't align with one-off certifications of this sort.

Please let me know if you have specific questions about this. I understand if this makes our products non-viable for you and your team. ❤️

Thank you for your care, very genuinely,

\=Isaac
