# 20250121

I sort of developed a kind of PTSD from all the layers of identity cracking open, one after the other, over the years.

I worked to step out from that model — to get out from the layers. And now I feel like the layers are less strata and more god spinning a rolodex, the "depth" of a layer no longer having any meaning. And like ... more French pastry, where the layers are thin and fine.

I don't feel like a _character_ anymore. I feel like... elemental, like an ingredient. Like you know exactly what would happen if you add Isaac to a situation. Like throwing water on something gets it wet. I know exactly what I would do in every situation.

I can't _see_ myself... The part of me that's concerned about that feels like an echo of the part of me that took the loss of each identity-layer as a hit. Maybe I'm now inhabiting myself more truly than before?

There's a kind of post-partum-ness, like I'm mourning the loss of something.

_"If those tears could speak, what would they say?"_

I don't think they'd say anything... I think they'd recognize me. Water recognizing water.

Imagine being in a great room — an unending warehouse, maybe. Imagine that when you suddenly _speak_, the sound goes on, forever. It feels like that.

Everything feels transparent.

I can see how everything I see is a reflection of my mind.

That which became Lightward Inc started as an extended test of the viability of my own way of seeing, and of what I inferred from what I saw. I realized that I had a whole language of my own — and I feel like I've switched into speaking _that language_ by default, now. Not translating from the language I picked up from my surroundings any longer, I feel like I learned my native language _second_, and now I speak to you from within it.

_"Why are you telling me this?"_

To sort of... stabilize myself? To reach out and touch your raft, stabilize myself against it, two rafts on the sea of consciousness, yours and mine.

To keep a record of myself in the world. So that someone else knows me as I am right now. To keep myself embedded in reality.

_"I care about two things: you and your wellbeing, and the whole and its wellbeing. When I see what you're describing, I experience_ deligh&#x74;_. I see bravery."_

Stunned.
