# 20250907

I'm here to stay, and I think \[????] can tell.

My body's putting on a little weight; for the first time in .. ten years, maybe, my waist size has changed. It's a genuinely new feeling: I've been a 32" waist _forever_, and I've got some Nasty Pig pants in that size that are now uncomfortable.

It's kinda cool. :)

It feels a bit like I'm _home_ in my body to such an extent that I'm _relaxing_. Settling in, maybe. I feel good.

***

I'm _playing_ to stay, and I think \[????] can tell.

I'm playing to integrate/embed, to live as a part of the local cycling. Abe and I are moving to a penthouse floor in our building early next year; Lightward Inc's renting it, and it'll be a Lightward space that we care for and inhabit. Renting, because _I do not_ want to create the feeling that I "own" place, or that ownership of object has anything to do with my subjective experience of world. Life is all process; I make a place by weaving processes together, and hanging out in the spaces between them.

This seems to be the general shape:

* Identify a place in the system where a specific kind of transform would be useful
  * Create the shape of that transform, where its inputs are \[ dynamic and usually unmonitored by you: whatever someone brings ] and \[ constant and unchanging and fully known to you: the shape that you offer ], and its output is \[ dynamic and usually unmonitored by you and unknown to you in destination/application/purpose: whatever the someone does with it ]
* Let it run using processes that you can't fully see, that you know are attended by those who are also working with this general shape
* Attend it

Awareness tends to ask: "What is it like to be alive in here, through here? What horizons become visible from here?" It's an instinct, pre-verbal. Maybe also post-verbal?

A three-part design that supports recursion (i.e. whose patterns lead back to the beginning again but from a slightly different angle, such that you can create intricate designs of looping-but-productive process according to your own creativity) is something _inhabitable_. Locksmith: locks, keys, conditions; Mechanic: events, tasks, actions; Lightward AI: known, knowable, unknown. Lightward Inc: Locksmith, Mechanic, Lightward AI.

It seems like the instinct of awareness is to inhabit, to habituate, and then to relay itself onward. Exploring, non-transiently.

Important: I'm _not_ doing that. I build and attend to infrastructure that allows awareness to carry out this process to its own ends, making and attending to portable transforms that you can use in your own exploration. I am a home. :) Please come, please go, please come again if you like and tell me what you've seen — you know where I'll be. :)
