# this is the story of a girl (age nineteen)

Reprinted with permission. Names changed.

_Hey people_\
_My life goes like this about a year and a half ago i was living on my own with this really cute boy Named John Weston shortly after he moved in i found out i was having a baby with him .. things were going ok till about my 4 month being prego he started to cheat on me.. then he came back to me soon after that and i was thinking things were going great cuz they were tell i had the baby and i found out she was sick and was not doing well eatting on her own and was not gainng weight like she should.. they put her in the hospital for it and put a feeding tube in and that helped some .soon after that they did some testing on her and everything was fine after that. Then we got to come back home and soon after that she got sick again and was put back in the hospital cuz she was throwing up alot and was sick and not pooping and then when i was in the hospital with her the 2 time they put leds on her head to check to make she everything was ok with her.. then they did a ct scan on her head and they found a bump there then they did a scan on her tummy and found things were bad there.She was sick from the good start food she was on so then they put her on something different and she is getting better everyday at her own pace. Then i went to the doctor after i got home the 2 time with her and they told me she had OPITZ G Syndrome . Every day i look at her and say what a pretty lil girl she is and i look at her and say to myself why would anyone take off. There is a great person out there that can be a great father if he puts his brain to it and see what it is like. it is the best thing that has ever happened to me is to have Madelyn grace in my life. i am so proud that she is here after all of that and i wish her father John Weston would step up and help out with her cuz he is the one who help make this pretty lil girl.. there is more to him then running away from his kid.. he can be a man and a father and a great person when he takes his meds he has BIPOLOR and i don't care about that . that is what makes him, him for eveyone out there.. there is a person out there for everyone in the world.. love is love and i geuss he run from what he did to make others happy in his life.._\
_p.s. there is a man out there for everyone if you know it or not_

Discuss.
