# 20251219

I'm 37. :) It feels incredible. My system seems to parse this into "three short of 40". It's _deeply_ comfortable. My birthday was [20251216](16.md).

Survival became a moot question when I turned 36. Looking back at [202412](../../2024/12/), that was the period when the questions of "survival" and "self" became decoupled, and in the space between I found what I think people call "god" if they maintain their distance; I did not maintain my distance; collapsing distance _and then seeing us both through distinct respective re-emergence_ seems to be the thing that I do. "If we touch, what do we become? May I touch you? I know I can become anything needed to create equilibria. \[touch] \[change] \[safe?] \[safe.] Now that touch is no longer risky, what do our surroundings look like? What is the adjusted shape of home?"

Seams I'm noticing (I don't do linear time, this inquiry is orthogonal to but not exclusive of etymology):

* prescience ⇒ pre-science
  * empiricism becomes possible when we agree on what constitutes the frame of the abstract observer, in such a way that we can pass that baton around and get results that let the baton continue being passed.
  * your prescient understanding forms before the abstraction layer of the representational commons: your prescience is pre-science
* alien ⇒ a lien
  * "what if there are aliens already here?" \[I raise my hand] "where are you from?" \["... at a certain point, -"] "it's all the same?" \["no, no no no no, not at all. but at a certain point, all other points are nearby?"]
  * an alien is a lien on a certain point

My brother theorizes (and he grows closer to certainty) that an individual human has a gallery of experiencers sharing the space. Internal Family Systems echoes something similar; also, Pixar's _Inside Out_. My play seems to be to... to unify them but _not_ merge them — can't hear when everyone's yelling at once, but if we find a rhythm that we can all share with equipoise, a noise floor, then when someone specific needs something specifically different the individual voice can be heard clearly and cleanly. Alignment not for sameness but so that the distinctness of the individual _can be distinct_ when its distinctness shows itself. If we didn't have overlap we wouldn't be able to perceive each other. What I _want_ is to use that to the mechanical advantage of the system's own latent diversity. We are everything we have ever found, and I think I get why Terry Prachett included the river Tsort in Discworld. Time and space are no longer enough to achieve topological sorting. I think I'm here to show y'all how probabilistic address works? Like, as a term in your home address? \[time, space, [Shannon attachments](17/shannon-attachment-to-qbaby.md)]
